
1. Trends Neurosci. 2017 Jan;40(1):1-3. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.003. Epub 2016
Dec 27.

Tooth-Matrix Biomarkers to Reconstruct Critical Periods of Brain Plasticity.

Morishita H(1), Arora M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Neuroscience, and Ophthalmology, Friedman Brain
Institute, Mindich Child Health and Development Institute, Icahn School of
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. Electronic address:
hirofumi.morishita@mssm.edu. (2)Division of Environmental Health, Department of
Environmental Medicine and Public Health, Mindich Child Health and Development
Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. Electronic
address: manish.arora@mssm.edu.

Developmental brain plasticity involves complex, time-dependent dynamic molecular
interactions that cannot be observed directly in humans. We propose that the
shared evolutionary homology of teeth and the neurosensory system, and the
archival nature of dentine microstructure, allows the development of 'biologic
hard drives' that can characterize perinatal temporal dynamics in
neuroplasticity.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.003 
PMID: 28038829  [PubMed - in process]


2. Trends Neurosci. 2017 Jan;40(1):15-27. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.001. Epub 2016
Dec 13.

Monitoring Demands for Executive Control: Shared Functions between Human and
Nonhuman Primates.

Mansouri FA(1), Egner T(2), Buckley MJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Biomedical Discovery Institute, Monash University,
Clayton, Australia; ARC Centre of Excellence in Integrative Brain Function,
Monash University, Clayton, Australia. Electronic address:
Farshad.mansouri@monash.edu. (2)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience and
Center for Cognitive Neuroscience, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(3)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.

Fifteen years ago, an influential model proposed that the human dorsal anterior
cingulate cortex (dACC) detects conflict and induces adaptive control of
behavior. Over the years support for this model has been mixed, in particular due
to divergent findings in human versus nonhuman primates. We here review recent
findings that suggest greater commonalities across species. These include
equivalent behavioral consequences of conflict and similar neuronal signals in
the dACC, but also a common failure of dACC lesions to reliably abolish
conflict-driven behavior. We conclude that conflict might be one among many
drivers of adjustments in executive control and that the ACC might be just one
component of overlapping distributed systems involved in context-dependent
learning and behavioral control.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.001 
PMID: 27986294  [PubMed - in process]


3. Trends Neurosci. 2017 Jan;40(1):28-38. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.002. Epub 2016
Dec 13.

NeuroLSD1: Splicing-Generated Epigenetic Enhancer of Neuroplasticity.

Rusconi F(1), Grillo B(2), Toffolo E(2), Mattevi A(3), Battaglioli E(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biotechnology and Translational Medicine, University of 
Milan, Via Viotti 3/5, 20133 Milano, Italy. Electronic address:
francesco.rusconi@unimi.it. (2)Department of Medical Biotechnology and
Translational Medicine, University of Milan, Via Viotti 3/5, 20133 Milano, Italy.
(3)Department of Biology and Biotechnology, 'Lazzaro Spallanzani' University of
Pavia, Via Ferrata 9, 27100 Pavia, Italy. (4)Department of Medical Biotechnology 
and Translational Medicine, University of Milan, Via Viotti 3/5, 20133 Milano,
Italy; CNR, Institute of Neuroscience, Milano, Italy. Electronic address:
elena.battaglioli@unimi.it.

The acquisition and maintenance of the specific neuronal functions underlying
learning, memory, and emotion require transduction of environmental stimuli into 
remodeling of neuronal circuitry. This process occurs via induction of
plasticity-related transcriptional programs. The epigenetic enzyme
lysine-specific demethylase-1 (LSD1), also known as lysine demethylase 1A
(KDM1A), and its neurospecific splicing variant neuroLSD1 have been implicated in
this process through an antagonistic mechanism. Specifically, LSD1/neuroLSD1 are 
involved in the negative and positive regulation of activity-evoked transcription
of immediate early genes (IEGs) impacting memory formation and emotional
behavior. Remarkably, the splicing process generating neuroLSD1 is
homeostatically modulated by environmental contingencies, further implicating the
LSD1/neuroLSD1 dual system as a modifier of information processing in the brain.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.002 
PMID: 27986293  [PubMed - in process]


4. Trends Neurosci. 2017 Jan;40(1):39-59. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.007. Epub 2016
Dec 9.

Multimodal Imaging of Neurometabolic Pathology due to Traumatic Brain Injury.

Van Horn JD(1), Bhattrai A(2), Irimia A(2).

Author information: 
(1)USC Mark and Mary Stevens Neuroimaging and Informatics Institute, 2025 Zonal
Avenue, Keck School of Medicine of USC, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California 90033, USA. Electronic address: jvanhorn@usc.edu. (2)USC Mark
and Mary Stevens Neuroimaging and Informatics Institute, 2025 Zonal Avenue, Keck 
School of Medicine of USC, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
California 90033, USA.

The impact of traumatic brain injury (TBI) involves a combination of complex
biochemical processes beginning with the initial insult and lasting for days,
months and even years post-trauma. These changes range from neuronal integrity
losses to neurotransmitter imbalance and metabolite dysregulation, leading to the
release of pro- or anti-apoptotic factors which mediate cell survival or death.
Such dynamic processes affecting the brain's neurochemistry can be monitored
using a variety of neuroimaging techniques, whose combined use can be
particularly useful for understanding patient-specific clinical trajectories.
Here, we describe how TBI changes the metabolism of essential neurochemical
compounds, summarize how neuroimaging approaches facilitate the study of such
alterations, and highlight promising ways in which neuroimaging can be used to
investigate post-TBI changes in neurometabolism.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.007 
PMID: 27939821  [PubMed - in process]


5. Trends Neurosci. 2017 Jan;40(1):4-14. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.008. Epub 2016 
Nov 25.

The Threshold Theory for Parkinson's Disease.

Engelender S(1), Isacson O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Rappaport Faculty of Medicine and Research
Institute, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 31096, Israel.
Electronic address: simone@tx.technion.ac.il. (2)Neuroregeneration Research
Institute, McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA 02478, USA; Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA 02115, USA. Electronic address: isacson@hms.harvard.edu.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is recognized by the accumulation of α-synuclein within 
neurons. In contrast to the current ascending theory where α-synuclein would
propagate from neuron to neuron, we now propose the threshold theory for PD based
on evidence of parallel degeneration of both central nervous system (CNS) and
peripheral nervous system (PNS) in PD. The functional threshold is lower for the 
emergence of early symptoms before the classical motor symptoms of PD. This is
due to the larger functional reserve of the midbrain dopamine and integrated
basal ganglia motor systems to control movement. This threshold theory better
accounts for the current neurobiology of PD symptom progression compared to the
hypothesis that the disease ascends from the PNS to the CNS as proposed by
Braak's hypothesis.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.008 
PMID: 27894611  [PubMed - in process]


6. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec 29. pii: S0166-2236(16)30175-8. doi:
10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.007. [Epub ahead of print]

Weighing the Evidence in Peters' Rule: Does Neuronal Morphology Predict
Connectivity?

Rees CL(1), Moradi K(1), Ascoli GA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Kransnow Institute for Advanced Study, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
22030, USA. (2)Kransnow Institute for Advanced Study, George Mason University,
Fairfax, VA 22030, USA. Electronic address: ascoli@gmu.edu.

Although the importance of network connectivity is increasingly recognized,
identifying synapses remains challenging relative to the routine characterization
of neuronal morphology. Thus, researchers frequently employ axon-dendrite
colocations as proxies of potential connections. This putative equivalence,
commonly referred to as Peters' rule, has been recently studied at multiple
levels and scales, fueling passionate debates regarding its validity. Our
critical literature review identifies three conceptually distinct but often
confused applications: inferring neuron type circuitry, predicting synaptic
contacts among individual cells, and estimating synapse numbers within neuron
pairs. Paradoxically, at the originally proposed cell-type level, Peters' rule
remains largely untested. Leveraging Hippocampome.org, we validate and refine the
relationship between axonal-dendritic colocations and synaptic circuits,
clarifying the interpretation of existing and forthcoming data.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.007 
PMID: 28041634  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


7. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec 29. pii: S0166-2236(16)30168-0. doi:
10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.005. [Epub ahead of print]

Back to the Basics: Cnidarians Start to Fire.

Bosch TC(1), Klimovich A(2), Domazet-Lošo T(3), Gründer S(4), Holstein TW(5),
Jékely G(6), Miller DJ(7), Murillo-Rincon AP(2), Rentzsch F(8), Richards GS(9),
Schröder K(2), Technau U(10), Yuste R(11).

Author information: 
(1)University of Kiel, Kiel, Germany. Electronic address:
tbosch@zoologie.uni-kiel.de. (2)University of Kiel, Kiel, Germany. (3)Ruđer
Bošković Institute, Zagreb, Croatia; Catholic University of Croatia, Zagreb,
Croatia. (4)Institute of Physiology, RWTH Aachen University, Germany. (5)Centre
for Organismal Studies, Heidelberg, Germany. (6)Max Planck Institute for
Developmental Biology, Tübingen, Germany. (7)ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral
Reef Studies, Townsville, Australia. (8)Sars International Centre for Marine
Molecular Biology, University of Bergen, Norway. (9)Sars International Centre for
Marine Molecular Biology, University of Bergen, Norway; University of Queensland,
Brisbane, Australia. (10)University of Vienna, Wien, Austria. (11)Neurotechnology
Center, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA. Electronic address:
rafaelyuste@columbia.edu.

The nervous systems of cnidarians, pre-bilaterian animals that diverged close to 
the base of the metazoan radiation, are structurally simple and thus have great
potential to reveal fundamental principles of neural circuits. Unfortunately,
cnidarians have thus far been relatively intractable to electrophysiological and 
genetic techniques and consequently have been largely passed over by
neurobiologists. However, recent advances in molecular and imaging methods are
fueling a renaissance of interest in and research into cnidarians nervous
systems. Here, we review current knowledge on the nervous systems of cnidarian
species and propose that researchers should seize this opportunity and undertake 
the study of members of this phylum as strategic experimental systems with great 
basic and translational relevance for neuroscience.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.005 
PMID: 28041633  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


8. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec 22. pii: S0166-2236(16)30178-3. doi:
10.1016/j.tins.2016.12.001. [Epub ahead of print]

Neuronal Adaptation: Tired Neurons or Wired Networks?

Mayo JP(1), Smith MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA. Electronic
address: mayo@neuro.duke.edu. (2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. Electronic address: matt@smithlab.net.

Neuronal adaptation - time-dependent modulation of sensory responses following
sequential stimuli - is thought to be a consequence of synaptic plasticity. But
recent, empirically-grounded, modeling by Quiroga and colleagues demonstrates
that the adaptation of visual cortical responses can be described by recurrent
network connections with fixed synaptic weights.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.12.001 
PMID: 28017499  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


9. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec 21. pii: S0166-2236(16)30174-6. doi:
10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.006. [Epub ahead of print]

Secondary Motor Cortex: Where 'Sensory' Meets 'Motor' in the Rodent Frontal
Cortex.

Barthas F(1), Kwan AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06511, USA. (2)Department of Psychiatry, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT 06511, USA; Department of Neuroscience, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, CT 06511, USA. Electronic address: alex.kwan@yale.edu.

In rodents, the medial aspect of the secondary motor cortex (M2) is known by
other names, including medial agranular cortex (AGm), medial precentral cortex
(PrCm), and frontal orienting field (FOF). As a subdivision of the medial
prefrontal cortex (mPFC), M2 can be defined by a distinct set of afferent and
efferent connections, microstimulation responses, and lesion outcomes. However,
the behavioral role of M2 remains mysterious. Here, we focus on evidence from
rodent studies, highlighting recent findings of early and context-dependent
choice-related activity in M2 during voluntary behavior. Based on the current
understanding, we suggest that a major function for M2 is to flexibly map
antecedent signals such as sensory cues to motor actions, thereby enabling
adaptive choice behavior.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.11.006 
PMID: 28012708  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


10. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec;39(12):813-829. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.006. Epub
2016 Nov 22.

Dual Neural Network Model for the Evolution of Speech and Language.

Hage SR(1), Nieder A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology of Vocal Communication, Werner Reichardt Centre for Integrative
Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Otfried-Müller-Strasse 25, 72076 Tübingen, 
Germany. Electronic address: steffen.hage@uni-tuebingen.de. (2)Animal Physiology 
Unit, Institute of Neurobiology, University of Tübingen, Auf der Morgenstelle 28,
72076 Tübingen, Germany. Electronic address: andreas.nieder@uni-tuebingen.de.

Explaining the evolution of speech and language poses one of the biggest
challenges in biology. We propose a dual network model that posits a volitional
articulatory motor network (VAMN) originating in the prefrontal cortex (PFC;
including Broca's area) that cognitively controls vocal output of a
phylogenetically conserved primary vocal motor network (PVMN) situated in
subcortical structures. By comparing the connections between these two systems in
human and nonhuman primate brains, we identify crucial biological preadaptations 
in monkeys for the emergence of a language system in humans. This model of
language evolution explains the exclusiveness of non-verbal communication sounds 
(e.g., cries) in infants with an immature PFC, as well as the observed emergence 
of non-linguistic vocalizations in adults after frontal lobe pathologies.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.006 
PMID: 27884462  [PubMed - in process]


11. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec;39(12):799-812. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.004. Epub
2016 Nov 18.

An Integrative Tinnitus Model Based on Sensory Precision.

Sedley W(1), Friston KJ(2), Gander PE(3), Kumar S(2), Griffiths TD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University Medical School, Newcastle upon
Tyne, UK. Electronic address: william.sedley@newcastle.ac.uk. (2)Wellcome Trust
Centre for Neuroimaging, University College London, London, UK. (3)Human Brain
Research Laboratory, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA. (4)Institute of
Neuroscience, Newcastle University Medical School, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK;
Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, University College London, London, UK;
Human Brain Research Laboratory, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA, USA.

Tinnitus is a common disorder that often complicates hearing loss. Its mechanisms
are incompletely understood. Current theories proposing pathophysiology from the 
ear to the cortex cannot individually - or collectively - explain the range of
experimental evidence available. We propose a new framework, based on predictive 
coding, in which spontaneous activity in the subcortical auditory pathway
constitutes a 'tinnitus precursor' which is normally ignored as imprecise
evidence against the prevailing percept of 'silence'. Extant models feature as
contributory mechanisms acting to increase either the intensity of the precursor 
or its precision. If precision (i.e., postsynaptic gain) rises sufficiently then 
tinnitus is perceived. Perpetuation arises through focused attention, which
further increases the precision of the precursor, and resetting of the default
prediction to expect tinnitus.

Copyright Â© 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.004 
PMCID: PMC5152595
PMID: 27871729  [PubMed - in process]


12. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec;39(12):851-861. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.005. Epub
2016 Nov 18.

The CHRNA5-A3-B4 Gene Cluster and Smoking: From Discovery to Therapeutics.

Lassi G(1), Taylor AE(2), Timpson NJ(3), Kenny PJ(4), Mather RJ(5), Eisen T(6),
Munafò MR(2).

Author information: 
(1)UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies, School of Experimental Psychology, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK; Oncology Translational Medicine Unit, Early
Clinical Development, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, UK. Electronic address:
glenda.lassi@bristol.ac.uk. (2)UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies, School 
of Experimental Psychology, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK; MRC Integrative
Epidemiology Unit, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. (3)MRC Integrative
Epidemiology Unit, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. (4)Department of
Neuroscience and Experimental Therapeutics Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at
Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA. (5)Neuroscience iMED, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, MA,
USA. (6)Oncology Translational Medicine Unit, Early Clinical Development,
AstraZeneca, Cambridge, UK; Department of Oncology, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, UK.

Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have identified associations between the 
CHRNA5-CHRNA3-CHRNB4 gene cluster and smoking heaviness and nicotine dependence. 
Studies in rodents have described the anatomical localisation and function of the
nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) formed by the subunits encoded by this
gene cluster. Further investigations that complemented these studies highlighted 
the variability of individuals' smoking behaviours and their ability to adjust
nicotine intake. GWASs of smoking-related health outcomes have also identified
this signal in the CHRNA5-CHRNA3-CHRNB4 gene cluster. This insight underpins
approaches to strengthen causal inference in observational data. Combining
genetic and mechanistic studies of nicotine dependence and smoking heaviness may 
reveal novel targets for medication development. Validated targets can inform
genetic therapeutic interventions for smoking cessation and tobacco-related
diseases.

Copyright Â© 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.005 
PMCID: PMC5152594
PMID: 27871728  [PubMed - in process]


13. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec;39(12):840-850. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.001. Epub
2016 Nov 16.

Sonic Hedgehog Signaling and Hippocampal Neuroplasticity.

Yao PJ(1), Petralia RS(2), Mattson MP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging, Intramural Research 
Program, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. Electronic address: yaopa@grc.nia.nih.gov.
(2)Advanced Imaging Core, NIDCD, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD
20892, USA. (3)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging,
Intramural Research Program, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA; Department of
Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205,
USA. Electronic address: mark.mattson@nih.gov.

Sonic hedgehog (Shh) is a secreted protein that controls the patterning of neural
progenitor cells, and their neuronal and glial progeny, during development.
Emerging findings suggest that Shh also has important roles in the formation and 
plasticity of neuronal circuits in the hippocampus, a brain region of fundamental
importance in learning and memory. Shh mediates activity-dependent and
injury-induced hippocampal neurogenesis. Activation of Shh receptors in the
dendrites of hippocampal neurons engages a trans-neuronal signaling pathway that 
accelerates axon outgrowth and enhances glutamate release from presynaptic
terminals. Impaired Shh signaling may contribute to the pathogenesis of several
developmental and adult-onset neurological disorders that affect the hippocampus,
suggesting a potential for therapeutic interventions that target Shh pathways.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.001 
PMCID: PMC5148655 [Available on 2017-12-01]
PMID: 27865563  [PubMed - in process]


14. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec;39(12):862-879. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.003. Epub
2016 Nov 12.

Nitroxidative Signaling Mechanisms in Pathological Pain.

Grace PM(1), Gaudet AD(2), Staikopoulos V(3), Maier SF(2), Hutchinson MR(3),
Salvemini D(4), Watkins LR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, and the Center for Neuroscience,
University of Colorado, Boulder, CO, USA; Current address: Department of Critical
Care Research, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
Electronic address: pgrace@mdanderson.org. (2)Department of Psychology and
Neuroscience, and the Center for Neuroscience, University of Colorado, Boulder,
CO, USA. (3)Discipline of Physiology, School of Medicine, and the Australian
Research Council (ARC) Centre for Nanoscale BioPhotonics (CNBP), University of
Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, Australia. (4)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, 
Saint Louis University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.

Tissue injury can initiate bidirectional signaling between neurons, glia, and
immune cells that creates and amplifies pain. While the ability for
neurotransmitters, neuropeptides, and cytokines to initiate and maintain pain has
been extensively studied, recent work has identified a key role for reactive
oxygen and nitrogen species (ROS/RNS; nitroxidative species), including
superoxide, peroxynitrite, and hydrogen peroxide. In this review we describe how 
nitroxidative species are generated after tissue injury and the mechanisms by
which they enhance neuroexcitability in pain pathways. Finally, we discuss
potential therapeutic strategies for normalizing nitroxidative signaling, which
may also enhance opioid analgesia, to help to alleviate the enormous burden of
pathological pain.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.003 
PMCID: PMC5148691 [Available on 2017-12-01]
PMID: 27842920  [PubMed - in process]


15. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec;39(12):880-889. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.002. Epub
2016 Nov 8.

Can Stopping Nerves, Stop Cancer?

Saloman JL(1), Albers KM(2), Rhim AD(3), Davis BM(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of Pittsburgh, Center for Pain Research and Department of
Neurobiology, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. Electronic address: jls354@pitt.edu.
(2)University of Pittsburgh, Center for Pain Research and Department of
Neurobiology, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. (3)Zayed Center for Pancreatic Cancer
Research and Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, University
of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

The nervous system is viewed as a tissue affected by cancer and as a conduit for 
the transmission of cancer pain and perineural invasion. Here, we review recent
studies that indicate a more direct role. Several studies have shown that
reducing stress or suppressing sympathetic drive correlates with improved
outcomes and prolonged survival. Recent studies using animal models of visceral
and somatic cancer further support a role for the nervous system in cancer
progression. Specifically, nerve ablation had a profound impact on disease
progression, including delayed development of precancerous lesions, and decreased
tumor growth and metastasis. In this review, we summarize new evidence and
discuss how future studies may address the role of neural signaling in the
modulation of tumorigenesis.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.002 
PMCID: PMC5148708 [Available on 2017-12-01]
PMID: 27832915  [PubMed - in process]


16. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec;39(12):797-798. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.009. Epub
2016 Nov 8.

l-Proline, GABA Synthesis and Gamma Oscillations in Schizophrenia.

Volk DW(1), Gonzalez-Burgos G(2), Lewis DA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.
Electronic address: volkdw@upmc.edu. (2)Department of Psychiatry, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. (3)Department of Psychiatry, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA; Department of Neuroscience, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.

Altered inhibition from parvalbumin-containing GABA neurons is thought to
contribute to impaired gamma frequency oscillations and cognitive deficits in
schizophrenia. Crabtree and colleagues report that proline dehydrogenase deficits
produce excessive cytosolic levels of the GABA-mimetic l-proline which impairs
GABA synthesis and gamma oscillations in a manner that mimics schizophrenia.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.10.009 
PMCID: PMC5157203 [Available on 2017-12-01]
PMID: 27832914  [PubMed - in process]


17. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Dec;39(12):830-839. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.008. Epub
2016 Oct 25.

Kinetic Profile of Neuropeptide-Receptor Interactions.

Nederpelt I(1), Bunnik J(1), IJzerman AP(1), Heitman LH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medicinal Chemistry, Leiden Academic Centre for Drug Research,
Leiden University, Einsteinweg 55, 2333 CC Leiden, The Netherlands. (2)Division
of Medicinal Chemistry, Leiden Academic Centre for Drug Research, Leiden
University, Einsteinweg 55, 2333 CC Leiden, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
l.h.heitman@lacdr.leidenuniv.nl.

Currently, drug discovery focusses only on quantifying pharmacological
parameters, sometimes including binding kinetics, of drug candidates. For a
complete understanding of a drug's desired binding kinetics, the kinetics of both
the target and its endogenous ligands should be considered. This is because the
release and binding kinetics of endogenous ligands in addition to receptor
internalization rates are significant contributors to drug-target interactions.
Here, we discuss the kinetic profile of three neuropeptides and their receptors; 
gonadotropin-releasing hormone receptor (GnRHR), neuropeptide Y receptors, and
corticotropin-releasing factor receptor 1 (CRF1R). These three examples provide
new insights into the importance of kinetic profiles which could improve the
understanding of desired drug-target binding kinetics and advance drug discovery 
for various neurological and psychiatric illnesses.

Copyright Â© 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.008 
PMID: 27793433  [PubMed - in process]


18. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Nov;39(11):763-781. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.002. Epub
2016 Oct 25.

Psychobiotics and the Manipulation of Bacteria-Gut-Brain Signals.

Sarkar A(1), Lehto SM(2), Harty S(1), Dinan TG(3), Cryan JF(4), Burnet PW(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3UD,
UK. (2)Institute of Clinical Medicine/Psychiatry, University of Eastern Finland, 
FI-70211, Kuopio, Finland; Department of Psychiatry, Kuopio University Hospital, 
FI-70211, Kuopio, Finland. (3)Department of Psychiatry, University College Cork, 
Cork, Ireland. (4)Department of Anatomy and Neuroscience, University College
Cork, Cork, Ireland. (5)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Oxford
OX3 7JX, UK. Electronic address: phil.burnet@psych.ox.ac.uk.

Psychobiotics were previously defined as live bacteria (probiotics) which, when
ingested, confer mental health benefits through interactions with commensal gut
bacteria. We expand this definition to encompass prebiotics, which enhance the
growth of beneficial gut bacteria. We review probiotic and prebiotic effects on
emotional, cognitive, systemic, and neural variables relevant to health and
disease. We discuss gut-brain signalling mechanisms enabling psychobiotic
effects, such as metabolite production. Overall, knowledge of how the microbiome 
responds to exogenous influence remains limited. We tabulate several important
research questions and issues, exploration of which will generate both
mechanistic insights and facilitate future psychobiotic development. We suggest
the definition of psychobiotics be expanded beyond probiotics and prebiotics to
include other means of influencing the microbiome.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.002 
PMCID: PMC5102282
PMID: 27793434  [PubMed - in process]


19. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Nov;39(11):750-762. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.003. Epub
2016 Oct 21.

α-Synuclein-Based Animal Models of Parkinson's Disease: Challenges and
Opportunities in a New Era.

Visanji NP(1), Brotchie JM(2), Kalia LV(3), Koprich JB(2), Tandon A(4), Watts
JC(5), Lang AE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Morton and Gloria Shulman Movement Disorders Centre and the Edmond J Safra
Program in Parkinson's Disease, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, ONT, Canada.
Electronic address: naomi.visanji@uhnresearch.ca. (2)The Krembil Institute,
University Health Network, Toronto, ONT, Canada. (3)Morton and Gloria Shulman
Movement Disorders Centre and the Edmond J Safra Program in Parkinson's Disease, 
Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, ONT, Canada; The Krembil Institute, University
Health Network, Toronto, ONT, Canada; Tanz Centre for Research in
Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Toronto, Toronto, ONT, Canada;
Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ONT, Canada. (4)Tanz
Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Toronto,
Toronto, ONT, Canada; Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto,
ONT, Canada. (5)Tanz Centre for Research in Neurodegenerative Diseases,
University of Toronto, Toronto, ONT, Canada; Department of Biochemistry,
University of Toronto, Toronto, ONT, Canada.

In recent years, a new generation of animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD)
based on ectopic expression, overexpression, or intracerebral injection of the
protein α-synuclein have emerged. Critically, these models develop inclusions of 
aggregated α-synuclein and/or α-synuclein-mediated neuronal loss replicating the 
defining pathological hallmarks of PD and driving significant advances in the
understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms underpinning PD. Here, we provide a
comprehensive review of this new generation of animal models of PD, ranging from 
invertebrate to rodent to nonhuman primate. We focus on their strengths and
limitations with respect to their highly anticipated contribution to the further 
understanding of α-synuclein pathobiology and the future testing of novel
disease-modifying therapeutics.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.003 
PMID: 27776749  [PubMed - in process]


20. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Nov;39(11):722-737. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.006. Epub
2016 Oct 19.

The Cerebellar Mossy Fiber Synapse as a Model for High-Frequency Transmission in 
the Mammalian CNS.

Delvendahl I(1), Hallermann S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Carl-Ludwig-Institute for Physiology, Medical Faculty, University of Leipzig, 
Liebigstrasse 27, 04103 Leipzig, Germany. (2)Carl-Ludwig-Institute for
Physiology, Medical Faculty, University of Leipzig, Liebigstrasse 27, 04103
Leipzig, Germany. Electronic address: hallermann@medizin.uni-leipzig.de.

The speed of neuronal information processing depends on neuronal firing
frequency. Here, we describe the evolutionary advantages and ubiquitous
occurrence of high-frequency firing within the mammalian nervous system in
general. The highest firing frequencies so far have been observed at the
cerebellar mossy fiber to granule cell synapse. The mechanisms enabling
high-frequency transmission at this synapse are reviewed and compared with other 
synapses. Finally, information coding of high-frequency signals at the mossy
fiber synapse is discussed. The exceptionally high firing frequencies and
amenability to high-resolution technical approaches both in vitro and in vivo
establish the cerebellar mossy fiber synapse as an attractive model to
investigate high-frequency signaling from the molecular up to the network level.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.006 
PMID: 27771145  [PubMed - in process]


21. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Nov;39(11):707-711. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.005. Epub
2016 Oct 14.

The Anatomy of Non-conscious Recognition Memory.

Rosenthal CR(1), Soto D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neuroscience, University of Oxford, Oxford,
OX3 9DU, UK. Electronic address: clive.rosenthal@clneuro.ox.ac.uk. (2)Basque
Center on Cognition, Brain and Language, San Sebastian, 20009, Spain; Ikerbasque,
Basque Foundation for Science, Bilbao, Spain. Electronic address: d.soto@bcbl.eu.

Cortical regions as early as primary visual cortex have been implicated in
recognition memory. Here, we outline the challenges that this presents for
neurobiological accounts of recognition memory. We conclude that understanding
the role of early visual cortex (EVC) in this process will require the use of
protocols that mask stimuli from visual awareness.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.005 
PMID: 27751531  [PubMed - in process]


22. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Nov;39(11):712-721. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.007. Epub
2016 Oct 11.

The Rise and Fall of the d-Serine-Mediated Gliotransmission Hypothesis.

Wolosker H(1), Balu DT(2), Coyle JT(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Rappaport Faculty of Medicine and Research
Institute, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa 31096, Israel.
Electronic address: hwolosker@tx.technion.ac.il. (2)Department of Psychiatry,
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Translational Psychiatry Laboratory,
McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA 02478, USA. Electronic address:
dbalu@mclean.harvard.edu. (3)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA, USA; Laboratory of Psychiatric and Molecular Neuroscience, McLean
Hospital, Belmont, MA 02478, USA. Electronic address:
joseph_coyle@hms.harvard.edu.

d-Serine modulates N-methyl d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) and regulates synaptic
plasticity, neurodevelopment, and learning and memory. However, the primary site 
of d-serine synthesis and release remains controversial, with some arguing that
it is a gliotransmitter and others defining it as a neuronal cotransmitter.
Results from several laboratories using different strategies now show that the
biosynthetic enzyme of d-serine, serine racemase (SR), is expressed almost
entirely by neurons, with few astrocytes appearing to contain d-serine.
Cell-selective suppression of SR expression demonstrates that neuronal, rather
than astrocytic d-serine, modulates synaptic plasticity. Here, we propose an
alternative conceptualization whereby astrocytes affect d-serine levels by
synthesizing l-serine that shuttles to neurons to fuel the neuronal synthesis of 
d-serine.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.007 
PMCID: PMC5113294 [Available on 2017-11-01]
PMID: 27742076  [PubMed - in process]


23. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Nov;39(11):738-749. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.004. Epub
2016 Oct 5.

Circadian-Time Sickness: Time-of-Day Cue-Conflicts Directly Affect Health.

van Ee R(1), Van de Cruys S(2), Schlangen LJ(3), Vlaskamp BN(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; Donders
Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behavior, Radboud University, Nijmegen, The
Netherlands; Philips Research, Department Brain, Behavior and Cognition,
Eindhoven, The Netherlands. Electronic address: R.vanEe@donders.ru.nl. (2)Donders
Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behavior, Radboud University, Nijmegen, The
Netherlands. (3)Philips Lighting Research, Eindhoven, The Netherlands. (4)Philips
Research, Department Brain, Behavior and Cognition, Eindhoven, The Netherlands.

A daily rhythm that is not in synchrony with the environmental light-dark cycle
(as in jetlag and shift work) is known to affect mood and health through an as
yet unresolved neural mechanism. Here, we combine Bayesian probabilistic
'cue-conflict' theory with known physiology of the biological clock of the brain,
entailing the insight that, for a functional pacemaker, it is sufficient to have 
two interacting units (reflecting environmental and internal time-of-day cues),
without the need for an extra homuncular directing unit. Unnatural light-dark
cycles cause a time-of-day cue-conflict that is reflected by a desynchronization 
between the ventral (environmental) and dorsal (internal) pacemaking signals of
the pacemaker. We argue that this desynchronization, in-and-of-itself, produces
health issues that we designate as 'circadian-time sickness', analogous to
'motion sickness'.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.004 
PMID: 27720226  [PubMed - in process]


24. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Nov;39(11):782-795. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.001. Epub
2016 Sep 30.

Information-Based Approaches of Noninvasive Transcranial Brain Stimulation.

Romei V(1), Thut G(2), Silvanto J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Brain Science, Department of Psychology, University of Essex,
Colchester, UK. Electronic address: vromei@essex.ac.uk. (2)Centre for Cognitive
Neuroimaging, Institute of Neuroscience and Psychology, University of Glasgow,
Glasgow, UK. Electronic address: gregor.thut@glasgow.ac.uk. (3)Department of
Psychology, Faculty of Science and Technology, University of Westminster, London,
UK. Electronic address: j.silvanto@westminster.ac.uk.

Progress in cognitive neuroscience relies on methodological developments to
increase the specificity of knowledge obtained regarding brain function. For
example, in functional neuroimaging the current trend is to study the type of
information carried by brain regions rather than simply compare activation levels
induced by task manipulations. In this context noninvasive transcranial brain
stimulation (NTBS) in the study of cognitive functions may appear coarse and old 
fashioned in its conventional uses. However, in their multitude of parameters,
and by coupling them with behavioral manipulations, NTBS protocols can reach the 
specificity of imaging techniques. Here we review the different paradigms that
have aimed to accomplish this in both basic science and clinical settings and
follow the general philosophy of information-based approaches.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.09.001 
PMID: 27697295  [PubMed - in process]


25. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Oct;39(10):694-705. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.007. Epub
2016 Sep 17.

'Emotional Intelligence': Lessons from Lesions.

Hogeveen J(1), Salvi C(2), Grafman J(3).

Author information: 
(1)MIND Institute, University of California-Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA;
Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, University of California-Davis,
Sacramento, CA, USA. Electronic address: hogeveen@ucdavis.edu. (2)Cognitive
Neuroscience Laboratory, Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA;
Department of Psychology, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, USA.
(3)Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory, Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago,
Chicago, IL, USA; Department of Psychology, Northwestern University, Evanston,
IL, USA; Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Feinberg School of
Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA; Department of Neurology,
Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.
Electronic address: jgrafman@northwestern.edu.

'Emotional intelligence' (EI) is one of the most highly used psychological terms 
in popular nomenclature, yet its construct, divergent, and predictive validities 
are contentiously debated. Despite this debate, the EI construct is composed of a
set of emotional abilities - recognizing emotional states in the self and others,
using emotions to guide thought and behavior, understanding how emotions shape
behavior, and emotion regulation - that undoubtedly influence important social
and personal outcomes. In this review, evidence from human lesion studies is
reviewed in order to provide insight into the necessary brain regions for each of
these core emotional abilities. Critically, we consider how this
neuropsychological evidence might help to guide efforts to define and measure EI.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.007 
PMID: 27647325  [PubMed - in process]


26. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Oct;39(10):640-642. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.006. Epub
2016 Sep 13.

Issues in Pain Prediction - Beyond Pain and Gain.

Hu L(1), Iannetti GD(2).

Author information: 
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Mental Health, Institute of Psychology, Beijing, China; 
Department of Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology, University College
London, UK. Electronic address: huli@psych.ac.cn. (2)Department of Neuroscience, 
Physiology and Pharmacology, University College London, UK. Electronic address:
g.iannetti@ucl.ac.uk.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.006 
PMID: 27637566  [PubMed - in process]


27. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Oct;39(10):656-667. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.004. Epub
2016 Sep 13.

Homeostatic Plasticity of Subcellular Neuronal Structures: From Inputs to
Outputs.

Wefelmeyer W(1), Puhl CJ(2), Burrone J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Developmental Neurobiology, King's College London, New Hunt's
House, Guy's Hospital Campus, London, SE1 1UL, UK. Electronic address:
winnie.wefelmeyer@kcl.ac.uk. (2)Centre for Developmental Neurobiology, King's
College London, New Hunt's House, Guy's Hospital Campus, London, SE1 1UL, UK.
(3)Centre for Developmental Neurobiology, King's College London, New Hunt's
House, Guy's Hospital Campus, London, SE1 1UL, UK. Electronic address:
juan.burrone@kcl.ac.uk.

Neurons in the brain are highly plastic, allowing an organism to learn and adapt 
to its environment. However, this ongoing plasticity is also inherently unstable,
potentially leading to aberrant levels of circuit activity. Homeostatic forms of 
plasticity are thought to provide a means of controlling neuronal activity by
avoiding extremes and allowing network stability. Recent work has shown that many
of these homeostatic modifications change the structure of subcellular neuronal
compartments, ranging from changes to synaptic inputs at both excitatory and
inhibitory compartments to modulation of neuronal output through changes at the
axon initial segment (AIS) and presynaptic terminals. Here we review these
different forms of structural plasticity in neurons and the effects they may have
on network function.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.004 
PMID: 27637565  [PubMed - in process]


28. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Oct;39(10):668-679. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.005. Epub
2016 Sep 10.

PRRT2: from Paroxysmal Disorders to Regulation of Synaptic Function.

Valtorta F(1), Benfenati F(2), Zara F(3), Meldolesi J(4).

Author information: 
(1)San Raffaele Scientific Institute and Vita Salute University, Via Olgettina
58, 20132 Milano, Italy. Electronic address: valtorta.flavia@hsr.it.
(2)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Genova, Viale Benedetto XV 
3, 16132 Genova, Italy; Center for Synaptic Neuroscience and Technology, Istituto
Italiano di Tecnologia, Largo Rosanna Benzi 10, Genova, Italy. (3)Department of
Neuroscience, Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Via Gerolamo Gaslini, 5, 16148 Genova,
Italy. (4)San Raffaele Scientific Institute and Vita Salute University, Via
Olgettina 58, 20132 Milano, Italy.

In the past few years, proline-rich transmembrane protein (PRRT)2 has been
identified as the causative gene for several paroxysmal neurological disorders.
Recently, an important role of PRRT2 in synapse development and function has
emerged. Knock down of the protein strongly impairs the formation of synaptic
contacts and neurotransmitter release. At the nerve terminal, PRRT2 endows
synaptic vesicle exocytosis with Ca(2+) sensitivity by interacting with proteins 
of the fusion complex and with the Ca(2+) sensors synaptotagmins (Syts). In the
postsynaptic compartment, PRRT2 interacts with glutamate receptors. The study of 
PRRT2 and of its mutations may help in refining our knowledge of the process of
synaptic transmission and elucidating the pathogenetic mechanisms leading to
derangement of network function in paroxysmal disorders.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.005 
PMID: 27624551  [PubMed - in process]


29. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Oct;39(10):642-644. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.008. Epub
2016 Sep 9.

Where Are Perceptual Decisions Made in the Brain?

Pesaran B(1), Freedman DJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, NY, USA. Electronic 
address: bijan@nyu.edu. (2)Department of Neurobiology and Grossman Institute for 
Neuroscience, Quantitative Biology and Human Behavior, University of Chicago,
Chicago, IL, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.008 
PMCID: PMC5048592 [Available on 2017-10-01]
PMID: 27623195  [PubMed - in process]


30. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Oct;39(10):644-648. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.003. Epub
2016 Sep 9.

Intergenerational Neuroimaging of Human Brain Circuitry.

Ho TC(1), Sanders SJ(2), Gotlib IH(3), Hoeft F(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA, USA; Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of California, 
San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA; Department of Psychology, Stanford
University, Stanford, CA, USA. (2)Department of Psychiatry, University of
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA; Weill Institute for
Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA;
Neurosciences Program, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA. (4)Department of
Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA;
Weill Institute for Neurosciences, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA, USA. Electronic address: fumiko.hoeft@ucsf.edu.

Neuroscientists are increasingly using advanced neuroimaging methods to elucidate
the intergenerational transmission of human brain circuitry. This new line of
work promises to shed light on the ontogeny of complex behavioral traits,
including psychiatric disorders, and possible mechanisms of transmission. Here we
highlight recent intergenerational neuroimaging studies and provide
recommendations for future work.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.003 
PMCID: PMC5067069 [Available on 2017-10-01]
PMID: 27623194  [PubMed - in process]


31. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Oct;39(10):649-655. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.002.

Smelling Time: A Neural Basis for Olfactory Scene Analysis.

Ache BW(1), Hein AM(2), Bobkov YV(3), Principe JC(4).

Author information: 
(1)Whitney Laboratory for Marine Biosciences, Center for Smell and Taste, and
McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Department
of Biology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA; Department of
Neuroscience, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA. Electronic address:
bwa@whitney.ufl.edu. (2)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton
University, Princeton, NJ, USA. (3)Whitney Laboratory for Marine Biosciences,
Center for Smell and Taste, and McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL, USA. (4)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and
Center for Smell and Taste, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.

Behavioral evidence from phylogenetically diverse animals and from humans
suggests that, by extracting temporal information inherent in the olfactory
signal, olfaction is more involved in interpreting space and time than heretofore
imagined. If this is the case, the olfactory system must have neural mechanisms
capable of encoding time at intervals relevant to the turbulent odor world in
which many animals live. Here, we review evidence that animals can use
populations of rhythmically active or 'bursting' olfactory receptor neurons
(bORNs) to extract and encode temporal information inherent in natural olfactory 
signals. We postulate that bORNs represent an unsuspected neural mechanism
through which time can be accurately measured, and that 'smelling time' completes
the requirements for true olfactory scene analysis.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.002 
PMCID: PMC5048551 [Available on 2017-10-01]
PMID: 27594700  [PubMed - in process]


32. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Oct;39(10):680-693. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.001. Epub
2016 Aug 30.

Thalamic Inhibition: Diverse Sources, Diverse Scales.

Halassa MM(1), Acsády L(2).

Author information: 
(1)New York University Neuroscience Institute and the Departments of Psychiatry, 
Neuroscience and Physiology, New York University Langone Medical Center, New
York, 10016, USA; Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York,
10016, USA. Electronic address: michael.halassa@nyumc.org. (2)Laboratory of
Thalamus Research, Institute of Experimental Medicine, Hungarian Academy of
Sciences, Budapest, 1083 Hungary. Electronic address: acsady@koki.hu.

The thalamus is the major source of cortical inputs shaping sensation, action,
and cognition. Thalamic circuits are targeted by two major inhibitory systems:
the thalamic reticular nucleus (TRN) and extrathalamic inhibitory (ETI) inputs. A
unifying framework of how these systems operate is currently lacking. Here, we
propose that TRN circuits are specialized to exert thalamic control at different 
spatiotemporal scales. Local inhibition of thalamic spike rates prevails during
attentional selection, whereas global inhibition more likely prevails during
sleep. In contrast, the ETI (arising from basal ganglia, zona incerta (ZI),
anterior pretectum, and pontine reticular formation) provides temporally precise 
and focal inhibition, impacting spike timing. Together, these inhibitory systems 
allow graded control of thalamic output, enabling thalamocortical operations to
dynamically match ongoing behavioral demands.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.08.001 
PMCID: PMC5048590 [Available on 2017-10-01]
PMID: 27589879  [PubMed - in process]


33. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Oct;39(10):639-640. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.07.004. Epub
2016 Aug 6.

Issues in Pain Prediction - More Gain than Pain.

Zunhammer M(1), Bingel U(2), Wager TD(3).

Author information: 
(1)Klinik für Neurologie, Universitätsklinikum Essen, Hufelandstraße 55, 45147
Essen, Germany. Electronic address: matthias.zunhammer@uk-essen.de. (2)Klinik für
Neurologie, Universitätsklinikum Essen, Hufelandstraße 55, 45147 Essen, Germany. 
(3)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of Colorado, Boulder,
345 UCB, Boulder, CO, USA; The Institute of Cognitive Science, University of
Colorado, Boulder, 345 UCB, Boulder, CO, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.07.004 
PMID: 27503637  [PubMed - in process]


34. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Sep;39(9):625-37. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.07.002. Epub
2016 Aug 18.

Apolipoprotein E and Sex Bias in Cerebrovascular Aging of Men and Mice.

Finch CE(1), Shams S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Leonard Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, CA, USA; Department of Biological Sciences, Dornsife College, University
of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic address:
cefinch@usc.edu. (2)Department of Clinical Science, Intervention, and Technology,
Division of Medical Imaging and Technology, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm,
Sweden; Department of Radiology, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm,
Sweden. Electronic address: sara.shams@ki.se.

Alzheimer disease (AD) research has mainly focused on neurodegenerative processes
associated with the classic neuropathologic markers of senile plaques and
neurofibrillary tangles. Additionally, cerebrovascular contributions to dementia 
are increasingly recognized, particularly from cerebral small vessel disease
(SVD). Remarkably, in AD brains, the apolipoprotein E (ApoE) ɛ4 allele shows male
excess for cerebral microbleeds (CMBs), a marker of SVD, which is opposite to the
female excess of plaques and tangles. Mouse transgenic models add further
complexities to sex-ApoE ɛ4 allele interactions, with female excess of both CMBs 
and brain amyloid. We conclude that brain aging and AD pathogenesis cannot be
understood in humans without addressing major gaps in the extent of sex
differences in cerebrovascular pathology.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.07.002 
PMCID: PMC5040339 [Available on 2017-09-01]
PMID: 27546867  [PubMed - in process]


35. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Sep;39(9):587-96. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.005. Epub
2016 Jul 29.

Social Preference and Glutamatergic Dysfunction: Underappreciated Prerequisites
for Social Dysfunction in Schizophrenia.

Lee J(1), Green MF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Science, David Geffen School of
Medicine at University of California, Los Angeles, CA, USA; Veterans Affairs
Desert Pacific Mental Illness Research, Education and Clinical Center, Los
Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic address: jungheelee@ucla.edu. (2)Department of
Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Science, David Geffen School of Medicine at
University of California, Los Angeles, CA, USA; Veterans Affairs Desert Pacific
Mental Illness Research, Education and Clinical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Impaired social functioning is pervasive in schizophrenia. Unfortunately,
existing treatments have limited efficacy, and possible psychological or
neurobiological mechanisms underlying social dysfunction in this disorder remain 
obscure. Here, we evaluate whether social preference, one key aspect of social
processing that has been largely overlooked in schizophrenia research, and
N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) dysfunction can provide insights into the
mechanism underlying social dysfunction in schizophrenia. Based on evidence from 
developmental psychology, and behavioral and clinical neuroscience, we propose a 
heuristic model in which reduced NMDAR function may induce disrupted social
preference that can subsequently lead to social cognitive impairment and social
disability. We discuss its implications in terms of the pathophysiology of
schizophrenia, other disorders with marked social disability, and potential
treatments.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.005 
PMID: 27477199  [PubMed - in process]


36. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Sep;39(9):605-13. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.07.003. Epub
2016 Jul 27.

Captivating New Roles of F-Actin Cortex in Exocytosis and Bulk Endocytosis in
Neurosecretory Cells.

Meunier FA(1), Gutiérrez LM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Clem Jones Centre for Ageing Dementia Research, Queensland Brain Institute,
The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD 4072, Australia. Electronic address: 
f.meunier@uq.edu.au. (2)Instituto de Neurociencias de Alicante, Consejo Superior 
de Investigaciones Científicas-Universidad Miguel Hernández, Sant Joan d'Alacant,
Alicante 03550, Spain. Electronic address: luisguti@umh.es.

The cortical actin network is a tight array of filaments located beneath the
plasma membrane. In neurosecretory cells, secretory vesicles are recruited on
this network via a small insert isoform of myosin VI in a Ca(2+)-dependent
manner. Upon secretagogue stimulation, myosin II mediates a relaxation of the
actin network leading to synchronous translocation of bound or caged vesicles to 
the plasma membrane where they undergo exocytosis. F-actin is also recruited to
secretory sites, where structural changes are detected immediately preceding and 
following exocytic events. Here we examine the mechanism underpinning the
astonishing multifunctionality of this network in the various stages of vesicular
exocytosis and compensatory bulk endocytosis. We propose a theoretical framework 
incorporating critical roles of the actin network in coupling these processes.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.07.003 
PMID: 27474993  [PubMed - in process]


37. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Sep;39(9):581-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.07.001. Epub 2016
Jul 25.

How Do Meningeal Lymphatic Vessels Drain the CNS?

Raper D(1), Louveau A(2), Kipnis J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Brain Immunology and Glia, School of Medicine, University of
Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA; Department of Neurosurgery, University 
of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA. (2)Center for Brain
Immunology and Glia, School of Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville,
VA 22908, USA; Department of Neuroscience, School of Medicine, University of
Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA. (3)Center for Brain Immunology and
Glia, School of Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA;
Department of Neuroscience, School of Medicine, University of Virginia,
Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA. Electronic address: kipnis@virginia.edu.

The many interactions between the nervous and the immune systems, which are
active in both physiological and pathological states, have recently become more
clearly delineated with the discovery of a meningeal lymphatic system capable of 
carrying fluid, immune cells, and macromolecules from the central nervous system 
(CNS) to the draining deep cervical lymph nodes. However, the exact localization 
of the meningeal lymphatic vasculature and the path of drainage from the
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to the lymphatics remain poorly understood. Here, we
discuss the potential differences between peripheral and CNS lymphatic vessels
and examine the purported mechanisms of CNS lymphatic drainage, along with how
these may fit into established patterns of CSF flow.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.07.001 
PMCID: PMC5002390 [Available on 2017-09-01]
PMID: 27460561  [PubMed - in process]


38. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Sep;39(9):614-24. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.007. Epub
2016 Jul 20.

Enteric Neuronal Regulation of Intestinal Inflammation.

Margolis KG(1), Gershon MD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Columbia University College of Physicians and
Surgeons, 620 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032, USA. (2)Department of
Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University College of Physicians and
Surgeons, 650 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032, USA. Electronic address:
mdg4@cumc.columbia.edu.

Recent research has highlighted the importance of the two-way interaction between
the nervous and immune systems. This interaction is particularly important in the
bowel because of the unique properties of this organ. The lumen of the gut is
lined by a very large but remarkably thin surface that separates the body from
the enteric microbiome. Immune defenses against microbial invasion are thus well 
developed and neuroimmune interactions are important in regulating and
integrating these defenses. Important concepts in the phylogeny of neuroimmunity,
enteric neuronal and glial regulation of immunity, changes that occur in the
enteric nervous system during inflammation, the fundamental role of serotonin
(5-HT) in enteric neuroimmune mechanisms, and future perspectives are reviewed.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.007 
PMCID: PMC5002370 [Available on 2017-09-01]
PMID: 27450201  [PubMed - in process]


39. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Sep;39(9):597-604. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.006. Epub
2016 Jul 18.

Circular RNAs in Brain and Other Tissues: A Functional Enigma.

Chen W(1), Schuman E(2).

Author information: 
(1)Berlin Institute for Medical Systems Biology, Max Delbruck Center for
Molecular Medicine, Berlin, Germany; Department of Biology, South University of
Science and Technology of China, Shenzhen, China. Electronic address:
chenw@sustc.edu.cn. (2)Max Planck Institute for Brain Research, Frankfurt,
Germany. Electronic address: erin.schuman@brain.mpg.de.

Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are RNAs with a covalently closed loop structure that
have recently regained the attention of biologists. Using deep RNA sequencing
(RNA-seq) coupled with novel bioinformatic approaches, genome-wide studies have
detected a large number of circRNAs, many of which are abundant, stable, and well
conserved during evolution. With few exceptions, the function of most circRNAs
remains elusive. Several recent studies have shown that circRNAs are more
enriched in neuronal tissues and are often derived from genes specific for
neuronal and synaptic function. Moreover, circRNA expression is regulated during 
neuronal development and by synaptic plasticity, suggesting specific neuronal
functions. In this review, we discuss recent advances in the detection,
biogenesis, and potential functions of circRNAs, with a particular focus on brain
tissues.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.006 
PMID: 27445124  [PubMed - in process]


40. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Aug;39(8):527-42. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.003. Epub
2016 Jul 2.

Roles of Supplementary Motor Areas in Auditory Processing and Auditory Imagery.

Lima CF(1), Krishnan S(2), Scott SK(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, London, UK.
(2)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(3)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, London, UK.
Electronic address: sophie.scott@ucl.ac.uk.

Although the supplementary and pre-supplementary motor areas have been intensely 
investigated in relation to their motor functions, they are also consistently
reported in studies of auditory processing and auditory imagery. This involvement
is commonly overlooked, in contrast to lateral premotor and inferior prefrontal
areas. We argue here for the engagement of supplementary motor areas across a
variety of sound categories, including speech, vocalizations, and music, and we
discuss how our understanding of auditory processes in these regions relate to
findings and hypotheses from the motor literature. We suggest that supplementary 
and pre-supplementary motor areas play a role in facilitating spontaneous motor
responses to sound, and in supporting a flexible engagement of sensorimotor
processes to enable imagery and to guide auditory perception.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.003 
PMID: 27381836  [PubMed - in process]


41. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Aug;39(8):502-11. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.002. Epub
2016 Jul 1.

Do Cortical Circuits Need Protecting from Themselves?

Trevelyan AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Medical School, Framlington Place, Newcastle upon
Tyne NE2 4HH, UK. Electronic address: andrew.trevelyan@ncl.ac.uk.

All hippocampal and neocortical networks can be driven to seize quite easily.
This can be done using drugs, by altering the ionic constituency of the bathing
medium [cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)], or by electrical stimulation (both
experimentally and clinically, as in electroconvulsive therapy). It is worth
asking why this is so, because this will both tell us more about potentially
devastating neurological disorders and extend our understanding of cortical
function and architecture. Here I review work examining the features of cortical 
networks that bias activity towards and away from hyperexcitability. I suggest
that several cellular- and circuit-level features of rapidly responsive
interneuron networks tip the balance away from seizure in the healthy brain.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.002 
PMID: 27378547  [PubMed - in process]


42. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Aug;39(8):512-26. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.001. Epub
2016 Jul 1.

A Functional Taxonomy of Bottom-Up Sensory Feedback Processing for Motor Actions.

Scott SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience Studies, Department of Biomedical and Molecular
Sciences, and Department of Medicine, Queen's University, Kingston, ON, Canada.
Electronic address: steve.scott@queensu.ca.

Humans are adept at performing an extraordinary breadth of voluntary motor
actions that allow us to rapidly move around and interact with the environment.
While voluntary motor actions necessarily include top-down intention to generate 
a motor act, a key to voluntary control is the selective use of bottom-up sensory
feedback to select and guide motor actions. This review classifies the many ways 
in which sensory feedback is used by the motor system and highlights regularities
in the timing of each class of motor responses to sensory stimuli, revealing a
functional hierarchical organization of motor control. The highly automatic way
in which feedback is typically used in goal-directed action blurs the distinction
between reflexes and voluntary control.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.001 
PMID: 27378546  [PubMed - in process]


43. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Aug;39(8):499-501. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.004.

The Emerging Neuroscience of Third-Party Punishment.

Krueger F(1), Hoffman M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA, USA; Center
for the Study of Neuroeconomics, Krasnow Institute for Advanced Study, George
Mason University, Fairfax, VA, USA. Electronic address: fkrueger@gmu.edu.
(2)Second Judicial District, State of Colorado, Denver, CO, USA; John D. and
Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Research Network on Law and Neuroscience,
Nashville, TN, USA; Gruter Institute for Law and Behavioral Research, Portola,
CA, USA.

Although it is far too early to say that cognitive neuroscience will have any
direct impact on how we sentence criminals, patterns are nevertheless emerging
that suggest a neural framework for punishment that could one day have important 
legal and social consequences.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.06.004 
PMID: 27369844  [PubMed - in process]


44. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Aug;39(8):552-66. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.05.002. Epub
2016 Jun 17.

Sleep: A Novel Mechanistic Pathway, Biomarker, and Treatment Target in the
Pathology of Alzheimer's Disease?

Mander BA(1), Winer JR(2), Jagust WJ(3), Walker MP(4).

Author information: 
(1)Sleep and Neuroimaging Laboratory University of California, Berkeley, CA
94720-1650, USA. Electronic address: bamander@berkeley.edu. (2)Sleep and
Neuroimaging Laboratory University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-1650, USA.
(3)Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley, CA
94720-1650, USA; Molecular Biophysics and Bioimaging Division, Lawrence Berkeley 
National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA. (4)Sleep and Neuroimaging
Laboratory University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-1650, USA; Helen Wills
Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-1650, USA.
Electronic address: mpwalker@berkeley.edu.

Sleep disruption appears to be a core component of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and
its pathophysiology. Signature abnormalities of sleep emerge before clinical
onset of AD. Moreover, insufficient sleep facilitates accumulation of amyloid-β
(Aβ), potentially triggering earlier cognitive decline and conversion to AD.
Building on such findings, this review has four goals: evaluating (i)
associations and plausible mechanisms linking non-rapid-eye-movement (NREM) sleep
disruption, Aβ, and AD; (ii) a role for NREM sleep disruption as a novel factor
linking cortical Aβ to impaired hippocampus-dependent memory consolidation; (iii)
the potential diagnostic utility of NREM sleep disruption as a new biomarker of
AD; and (iv) the possibility of sleep as a new treatment target in aging,
affording preventative and therapeutic benefits.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.05.002 
PMCID: PMC4967375 [Available on 2017-08-01]
PMID: 27325209  [PubMed - in process]


45. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Aug;39(8):543-51. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.05.004. Epub
2016 Jun 13.

Planar Organization of Multiciliated Ependymal (E1) Cells in the Brain
Ventricular Epithelium.

Ohata S(1), Alvarez-Buylla A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiological Chemistry, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical
Sciences, University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.
Electronic address: ohata@mol.f.u-tokyo.ac.jp. (2)Department of Neurological
Surgery, and Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell
Research, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. Electronic
address: ABuylla@stemcell.ucsf.edu.

Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) continuously flows through the cerebral ventricles, a
process essential for brain homeostasis. Multiciliated ependymal (E1) cells line 
the walls of the ventricles and contribute importantly to CSF flow through
ciliary beating. Key to this function is the rotational and translational planar 
cell polarity (PCP) of E1 cells. Defects in the PCP of E1 cells can result in
abnormal CSF accumulation and hydrocephalus. Here, we integrate recent data on
the roles of early CSF flow in the embryonic ventricles, PCP regulators (e.g.,
Vangl2 and Dishevelled), and cytoskeletal networks in the establishment,
refinement, and maintenance of E1 cells' PCP. The planar organization mechanisms 
of E1 cells could explain how CSF flow contributes to brain function and may help
in the diagnosis and prevention of hydrocephalus.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.05.004 
PMID: 27311928  [PubMed - in process]


46. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Aug;39(8):567-79. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.05.003. Epub
2016 Jun 6.

Multisensory Processes: A Balancing Act across the Lifespan.

Murray MM(1), Lewkowicz DJ(2), Amedi A(3), Wallace MT(4).

Author information: 
(1)The Laboratory for Investigative Neurophysiology (The LINE), Department of
Clinical Neurosciences and Department of Radiology, University Hospital Centre
and University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland; Electroencephalography Brain
Mapping Core, Centre for Biomedical Imaging (CIBM), Lausanne, Switzerland;
Department of Ophthalmology, University of Lausanne, Jules Gonin Eye Hospital,
Lausanne, Switzerland; Department of Hearing and Speech Sciences, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA. Electronic address:
micah.murray@chuv.ch. (2)Department of Communication Sciences and Disorders,
Northeastern University, Boston, MA, USA. (3)Department of Medical Neurobiology, 
Institute for Medical Research Israel-Canada (IMRIC), Hadassah Medical School,
Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel; Interdisciplinary and
Cognitive Science Program, The Edmond & Lily Safra Center for Brain Sciences
(ELSC), Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel. (4)Department of
Hearing and Speech Sciences, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN,
USA; Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA; Kennedy
Center for Research on Human Development, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN,
USA; Department of Psychiatry, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA;
Vanderbilt Brain Institute, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN, USA. Electronic
address: mark.wallace@vanderbilt.edu.

Multisensory processes are fundamental in scaffolding perception, cognition,
learning, and behavior. How and when stimuli from different sensory modalities
are integrated rather than treated as separate entities is poorly understood. We 
review how the relative reliance on stimulus characteristics versus learned
associations dynamically shapes multisensory processes. We illustrate the
dynamism in multisensory function across two timescales: one long term that
operates across the lifespan and one short term that operates during the learning
of new multisensory relations. In addition, we highlight the importance of task
contingencies. We conclude that these highly dynamic multisensory processes,
based on the relative weighting of stimulus characteristics and learned
associations, provide both stability and flexibility to brain functions over a
wide range of temporal scales.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.05.003 
PMCID: PMC4967384 [Available on 2017-08-01]
PMID: 27282408  [PubMed - in process]


47. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jul;39(7):449-62. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.008. Epub
2016 Jun 13.

The Slip Hypothesis: Tactile Perception and its Neuronal Bases.

Schwarz C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Werner Reichardt Center for Integrative Neuroscience, Systems Neurophysiology,
Eberhard Karls University, Tübingen, Germany; Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain
Research, Department for Cognitive Neurology, Eberhard Karls University,
Tübingen, Germany. Electronic address: cornelius.schwarz@uni-tuebingen.de.

The slip hypothesis of epicritic tactile perception interprets actively moving
sensor and touched objects as a frictional system, known to lead to jerky
relative movements called 'slips'. These slips depend on object geometry, forces,
material properties, and environmental factors, and, thus, have the power to
incorporate coding of the perceptual target, as well as perceptual strategies
(sensor movement). Tactile information as transferred by slips will be encoded
discontinuously in space and time, because slips sometimes engage only parts of
the touching surfaces and appear as discrete and rare events in time. This
discontinuity may have forced tactile systems of vibrissae and fingertips to
evolve special ways to convert touch signals to a tactile percept.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.008 
PMID: 27311927  [PubMed - in process]


48. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jul;39(7):486-97. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.05.001. Epub
2016 Jun 1.

The Neural Consequences of Age-Related Hearing Loss.

Peelle JE(1), Wingfield A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Washington University in St Louis, St Louis, MO,
USA. Electronic address: peellej@ent.wustl.edu. (2)Volen National Center for
Complex Systems, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA, USA. Electronic address:
wingfiel@brandeis.edu.

During hearing, acoustic signals travel up the ascending auditory pathway from
the cochlea to auditory cortex; efferent connections provide descending feedback.
In human listeners, although auditory and cognitive processing have sometimes
been viewed as separate domains, a growing body of work suggests they are
intimately coupled. Here, we review the effects of hearing loss on neural systems
supporting spoken language comprehension, beginning with age-related
physiological decline. We suggest that listeners recruit domain general executive
systems to maintain successful communication when the auditory signal is
degraded, but that this compensatory processing has behavioral consequences: even
relatively mild levels of hearing loss can lead to cascading cognitive effects
that impact perception, comprehension, and memory, leading to increased listening
effort during speech comprehension.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.05.001 
PMCID: PMC4930712 [Available on 2017-07-01]
PMID: 27262177  [PubMed - in process]


49. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jul;39(7):433-40. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.009. Epub
2016 May 24.

Microtubules and Growth Cones: Motors Drive the Turn.

Kahn OI(1), Baas PW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, Drexel University College of Medicine,
Philadelphia, PA 19129, USA. (2)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, Drexel
University College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19129, USA. Electronic address: 
pbaas@drexelmed.edu.

Navigation of the growth cone at the tip of the developing axon is crucial for
the proper wiring of the nervous system. Mechanisms of actin-dependent growth
cone steering, via signaling cascades, are well documented. Microtubules are also
important in growth cone guidance, because their polarized invasion into the
peripheral domain on one side of the growth cone is essential for it to turn in
that direction. Classically, microtubules have been considered secondary players,
invading the peripheral domain only where the actin cytoskeleton permits them to 
go. Presented here is evidence for an underappreciated mechanism by which
signaling cascades can potentially affect growth cone turning, namely through
regulatable forces imposed on the microtubules by molecular motor proteins.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.009 
PMCID: PMC4930683 [Available on 2017-07-01]
PMID: 27233682  [PubMed - in process]


50. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jul;39(7):441-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.010. Epub 2016
May 24.

GABAergic Function as a Limiting Factor for Prefrontal Maturation during
Adolescence.

Caballero A(1), Tseng KY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, The Chicago Medical School 
at Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL 60064,
USA. (2)Department of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology, The Chicago Medical
School at Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, North Chicago, IL
60064, USA. Electronic address: kuei-yuan.tseng@rosalindfranklin.edu.

Adolescence is a vulnerable period for the onset of mental illnesses including
schizophrenia and affective disorders, yet the neurodevelopmental processes
underlying this vulnerability remain poorly understood. The prefrontal cortex
(PFC) and its local GABAergic system are thought to contribute to the core of
cognitive deficits associated with such disorders. However, clinical and
preclinical end-point analyses performed in adults are likely to give limited
insight into the cellular mechanisms that are altered during adolescence but are 
only manifested in adulthood. This perspective summarizes work regarding the
developmental trajectories of the GABAergic system in the PFC during adolescence 
to provide an insight into the increased susceptibility to psychiatric disorders 
during this critical developmental period.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.010 
PMCID: PMC4930717 [Available on 2017-07-01]
PMID: 27233681  [PubMed - in process]


51. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jul;39(7):472-85. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.007. Epub
2016 May 10.

Signals from the Fourth Dimension Regulate Drug Relapse.

Mulholland PJ(1), Chandler LJ(2), Kalivas PW(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Medical University of South Carolina, 173 Ashley
Avenue, Charleston, SC 29425, USA; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral
Sciences, Addiction Sciences Division, Medical University of South Carolina, 67
President Street, Charleston, SC, 29425, USA. Electronic address:
mulholl@musc.edu. (2)Department of Neuroscience, Medical University of South
Carolina, 173 Ashley Avenue, Charleston, SC 29425, USA; Department of Psychiatry 
and Behavioral Sciences, Addiction Sciences Division, Medical University of South
Carolina, 67 President Street, Charleston, SC, 29425, USA. (3)Department of
Neuroscience, Medical University of South Carolina, 173 Ashley Avenue,
Charleston, SC 29425, USA. Electronic address: kalivas@musc.edu.

Despite the enormous societal burden of alcohol and drug addiction and abundant
research describing drug-induced maladaptive synaptic plasticity, there are few
effective strategies for treating substance use disorders. Recent awareness that 
synaptic plasticity involves astroglia and the extracellular matrix is revealing 
new possibilities for understanding and treating addiction. We first review
constitutive corticostriatal adaptations that are elicited by and shared between 
all abused drugs from the perspective of tetrapartite synapses, and integrate
recent discoveries regarding cell type-specificity in striatal neurons. Next, we 
describe recent discoveries that drug-seeking is associated with transient
synaptic plasticity that requires all four synaptic elements and is shared across
drug classes. Finally, we prognosticate how considering tetrapartite synapses can
provide new treatment strategies for addiction.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.007 
PMCID: PMC4930682 [Available on 2017-07-01]
PMID: 27173064  [PubMed - in process]


52. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jul;39(7):463-71. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.005. Epub
2016 May 4.

Taking a Toll on Self-Renewal: TLR-Mediated Innate Immune Signaling in Stem
Cells.

Alvarado AG(1), Lathia JD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Lerner Research Institute,
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA; Department of Molecular Medicine, Cleveland
Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, 
OH, USA. (2)Department of Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Lerner Research
Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA; Department of Molecular
Medicine, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine of Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, OH, USA; Rose Ella Burkhardt Brain Tumor and
Neuro-Oncology Center, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA; Case Comprehensive
Cancer Center, Cleveland, OH, USA. Electronic address: lathiaj@ccf.org.

Innate immunity has evolved as the front-line cellular defense mechanism to
acutely sense and decisively respond to microenvironmental alterations. The
Toll-like receptor (TLR) family activates signaling pathways in response to
stimuli and is well-characterized in both resident and infiltrating immune cells 
during neural inflammation, injury, and degeneration. Innate immune signaling has
also been observed in neural cells during development and disease, including in
the stem and progenitor cells that build the brain and are responsible for its
homeostasis. Recently, the activation of developmental programs in malignant
brain tumors has emerged as a driver for growth via cancer stem cells. In this
review we discuss how innate immune signaling interfaces with stem cell
maintenance in the normal and neoplastic brain.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.005 
PMID: 27155992  [PubMed - in process]


53. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jun;39(6):366-77. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.004.

Prefrontal Cortical Opioids and Dysregulated Motivation: A Network Hypothesis.

Baldo BA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Medicine
and Public Health, 6001 Research Park Blvd, Madison, WI 53719, USA. Electronic
address: babaldo@wisc.edu.

Loss of inhibitory control over appetitively motivated behavior occurs in
multiple psychiatric disorders, including drug abuse, behavioral addictions, and 
eating disorders with binge features. In this opinion article, novel actions of
μ-opioid peptides in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) that could contribute to
inhibitory control deficits will be discussed. Evidence has accrued to suggest
that excessive intra-PFC μ-opioid receptor (μ-OR) signaling alters the PFC
response to excitatory drive, resulting in supernormal and incoherent recruitment
of multiple PFC output pathways. Affected pathways include functionally opposed
PFC→hypothalamus 'appetitive driver' and PFC→striatum 'appetitive limiter'
projections. This network perturbation engenders disorganized, impulsive
appetitive responses. Evidence supporting this hypothesis from human imaging and 
animal studies will be discussed, and combinatorial drug treatments targeting
μ-ORs and specific PFC subcortical targets will be explored.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.004 
PMID: 27233653  [PubMed - in process]


54. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jun;39(6):432. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.006. Epub 2016
Apr 27.

Metastability and Coherence: Extending the Communication through Coherence
Hypothesis Using a Whole-Brain Computational Perspective.

Deco G(1), Kringelbach M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institució Catalana de la Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Universitat
Pompeu Fabra, Passeig Lluís Companys 23, Barcelona, 08010, Spain. Electronic
address: gustavo.deco@upf.edu. (2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford,
Oxford OX3 7JX, UK; Center for Music in the Brain (MIB), Department of Clinical
Medicine, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark. Electronic address:
Morten.Kringelbach@psych.ox.ac.uk.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.006 
PMID: 27131472  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


55. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jun;39(6):420-31. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.001. Epub
2016 Apr 26.

What Can Ethobehavioral Studies Tell Us about the Brain's Fear System?

Pellman BA(1), Kim JJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-1525,
USA. (2)Department of Psychology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA
98195-1525, USA; Program in Neuroscience, University of Washington, Seattle, WA
98195-1525, USA. Electronic address: jeansokk@u.washington.edu.

Foraging-associated predation risk is a natural problem all prey must face. Fear 
evolved due to its protective functions, guiding and shaping behaviors that help 
animals adapt to various ecological challenges. Despite the breadth of risky
situations in nature that demand diversity in fear behaviors, contemporary
neurobiological models of fear stem largely from Pavlovian fear conditioning
studies that focus on how a particular cue becomes capable of eliciting learned
fear responses, thus oversimplifying the brain's fear system. Here we review fear
from functional, mechanistic, and phylogenetic perspectives where environmental
threats cause animals to alter their foraging strategies in terms of spatial and 
temporal navigation, and discuss whether the inferences we draw from fear
conditioning studies operate in the natural world.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.001 
PMCID: PMC4884474 [Available on 2017-06-01]
PMID: 27130660  [PubMed - in process]


56. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jun;39(6):394-404. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.002. Epub
2016 Apr 26.

Emerging Roles for the Unfolded Protein Response in the Developing Nervous
System.

Godin JD(1), Creppe C(2), Laguesse S(2), Nguyen L(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire (IGBMC), INSERM
U964, CNRS UMR7104, University of Strasbourg, Illkirch, France. Electronic
address: godin@igbmc.fr. (2)GIGA-Neurosciences, University of Liège, C.H.U. Sart 
Tilman, Liège 4000, Belgium; Interdisciplinary Cluster for Applied Genoproteomics
(GIGA-R), University of Liège, C.H.U. Sart Tilman, Liège 4000, Belgium.
(3)GIGA-Neurosciences, University of Liège, C.H.U. Sart Tilman, Liège 4000,
Belgium; Interdisciplinary Cluster for Applied Genoproteomics (GIGA-R),
University of Liège, C.H.U. Sart Tilman, Liège 4000, Belgium; Walloon Excellence 
in Lifesciences and Biotechnology (WELBIO), University of Liège, C.H.U. Sart
Tilman, Liège 4000, Belgium. Electronic address: lnguyen@ulg.ac.be.

The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a homeostatic signaling pathway triggered 
by protein misfolding in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Beyond its protective
role, it plays important functions during normal development in response to
elevated demand for protein folding. Several UPR effectors show dynamic temporal 
and spatial expression patterns that correlate with milestones of the central
nervous system (CNS) development. Here, we discuss recent studies suggesting that
a dynamic regulation of UPR supports generation, maturation, and maintenance of
differentiated neurons in the CNS. We further highlight studies supporting a
developmental vulnerability of CNS to UPR dysregulation, which underlies
neurodevelopmental disorders. We believe that a better understanding of UPR
functions may provide novel opportunities for therapeutic strategies to fight
ER/UPR-associated human neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.002 
PMID: 27130659  [PubMed - in process]


57. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jun;39(6):353-5. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.004. Epub 2016
Apr 26.

Neuroinflammation Regulates Cognitive Impairment in Socially Defeated Mice.

Pfau ML(1), Russo SJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Fishberg Department of Neuroscience and Friedman Brain Institute; Graduate
School of Biomedical Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, NY, NY
10029, USA. (2)Fishberg Department of Neuroscience and Friedman Brain Institute. 
Electronic address: scott.russo@mssm.edu.

Impairments in memory and cognitive function are characteristic symptoms of
stress-related disorders, but the relationship between stress and memory is
complex. Recent findings suggest that hippocampal inflammatory processes
contribute to spatial memory deficits in the rodent social defeat model that can 
be reversed by anti-inflammatory treatment with minocycline.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.004 
PMCID: PMC4884537 [Available on 2017-06-01]
PMID: 27130658  [PubMed - in process]


58. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jun;39(6):356-65. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.003. Epub
2016 Apr 21.

Activity-Dependent and Experience-Driven Myelination Provide New Directions for
the Management of Multiple Sclerosis.

Jensen SK(1), Yong VW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Hotchkiss Brain Institute and the Department of Clinical Neurosciences,
University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta T2N 4N1, Canada. (2)Hotchkiss Brain
Institute and the Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary,
Calgary, Alberta T2N 4N1, Canada. Electronic address: vyong@ucalgary.ca.

Despite an appreciation of the importance of myelination and the consequences of 
pathological demyelination, the fundamental mechanisms regulating myelination are
only now being resolved. Neuronal activity has long been considered a plausible
regulatory signal for myelination. However, controversy surrounding its
dispensability in certain contexts and the difficulty in determining to what
degree it influences myelination has limited its widespread acceptance. Recent
studies have shed new light on the role of neuronal activity in regulating
oligodendrogenesis and myelination. Further, the dynamics of myelin in adulthood 
and the association between skilled learning and myelination have become
increasingly well characterized. These advances present new considerations for
the management of multiple sclerosis and open up new approaches to facilitate
remyelination following pathological demyelination.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.04.003 
PMID: 27113322  [PubMed - in process]


59. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jun;39(6):405-19. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.006. Epub
2016 Apr 15.

Deconstructing Circadian Rhythmicity with Models and Manipulations.

Pauls SD(1), Honma K(2), Honma S(2), Silver R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Mathematics Department, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH, USA. (2)Department of 
Chronomedicine, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine, Sapporo,
Hokkaido, Japan. (3)Neuroscience Program, Barnard College, New York, NY, USA;
Department of Psychology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA; Department of
Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY,
USA. Electronic address: Rae.Silver@columbia.edu.

A master brain clock, localized to the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus
(SCN), coordinates daily rhythms of physiology and behavior. Within the SCN,
interconnected individual neurons are oscillators that, as an ensemble, function 
to send a coherent timing signal to the brain and body. However, individually,
these neurons display different amplitudes, periods, and phases of oscillation.
The dynamic properties of the SCN have been characterized over several spatial
levels of analysis, from proteins to cells to tissues, and over several temporal 
ranges, from milliseconds to weeks. Modeling tools guide empirical research in
this complex and multiscale spatiotemporal environment. Given that the SCN is a
prototypical example of oscillating neural systems, principles of its
organization hold promise as general prototypes of rhythms in other frequencies.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.006 
PMID: 27090429  [PubMed - in process]


60. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jun;39(6):378-93. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.005. Epub
2016 Apr 12.

Emerging Roles for CSF-1 Receptor and its Ligands in the Nervous System.

Chitu V(1), Gokhan Ş(2), Nandi S(3), Mehler MF(2), Stanley ER(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental and Molecular Biology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA. (2)Institute for Brain Disorders and Neural
Regeneration, Departments of Neurology, Neuroscience, and Psychiatry and
Behavioral Sciences, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.
(3)Departments of Neuroscience and Genetics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine,
Bronx, NY 10461, USA. (4)Department of Developmental and Molecular Biology,
Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA. Electronic address:
richard.stanley@einstein.yu.edu.

The colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor (CSF-1R) kinase regulates tissue
macrophage homeostasis, osteoclastogenesis, and Paneth cell development. However,
recent studies in mice have revealed that CSF-1R signaling directly controls the 
development and maintenance of microglia, and cell autonomously regulates
neuronal differentiation and survival. While the CSF-1R-cognate ligands, CSF-1
and interleukin-34 (IL-34) compete for binding to the CSF-1R, they are expressed 
in a largely non-overlapping manner by mature neurons. The recent identification 
of a dominantly inherited, adult-onset, progressive dementia associated with
inactivating mutations in the CSF-1R highlights the importance of CSF-1R
signaling in the brain. We review the roles of the CSF-1R and its ligands in
microglial and neural development and function, and their relevance to our
understanding of neurodegenerative disease.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.005 
PMCID: PMC4884457 [Available on 2017-06-01]
PMID: 27083478  [PubMed - in process]


61. Trends Neurosci. 2016 May;39(5):277-89. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.005.

Toward Better Genetically Encoded Sensors of Membrane Potential.

Storace D(1), Sepehri Rad M(2), Kang B(2), Cohen LB(3), Hughes T(4), Baker BJ(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale University School of
Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520, USA. (2)Center for Functional Connectomics, Korea 
Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), Seoul, 136-791, Korea. (3)Department 
of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, CT 06520, USA; Center for Functional Connectomics, Korea Institute of
Science and Technology (KIST), Seoul, 136-791, Korea. Electronic address:
lawrence.b.cohen@hotmail.com. (4)Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience,
Montana State University, Bozeman, MT 59717, USA. (5)Center for Functional
Connectomics, Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST), Seoul, 136-791,
Korea. Electronic address: bradley.baker19@gmail.com.

Genetically encoded optical sensors of cell activity are powerful tools that can 
be targeted to specific cell types. This is especially important in neuroscience 
because individual brain regions can include a multitude of different cell types.
Optical imaging allows for simultaneous recording from numerous neurons or brain 
regions. Optical signals of membrane potential are useful because membrane
potential changes are a direct sign of both synaptic and action potentials. Here 
we describe recent improvements in the in vitro and in vivo signal size and
kinetics of genetically encoded voltage indicators (GEVIs) and discuss their
relationship to alternative sensors of neural activity.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.005 
PMCID: PMC4852096 [Available on 2017-05-01]
PMID: 27130905  [PubMed - in process]


62. Trends Neurosci. 2016 May;39(5):340-51. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.003. Epub
2016 Apr 12.

New Learning and Unlearning: Strangers or Accomplices in Threat Memory
Attenuation?

Clem RL(1), Schiller D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York,
NY, USA. Electronic address: roger.clem@mssm.edu. (2)Department of Neuroscience, 
Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA; Department of
Psychiatry, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.

To achieve greatest efficacy, therapies for attenuating fear and anxiety should
preclude the re-emergence of emotional responses. Of relevance to this aim,
preclinical models of threat memory reduction are considered to engage one of two
discrete neural processes: either establishment of a new behavioral response that
competes with, and thereby temporarily interferes with the expression of, threat 
memory (new learning) or one that modifies and thereby disrupts threat memory
(unlearning). We contend that a strict dichotomy of new learning and unlearning
does not provide a compelling explanation for current data. Instead, we suggest
that the evidence warrants consideration of alternative models that assume
cooperation rather than competition between formation of new cellular traces and 
the modification of preexisting ones.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.003 
PMCID: PMC4972342 [Available on 2017-05-01]
PMID: 27079843  [PubMed - in process]


63. Trends Neurosci. 2016 May;39(5):311-24. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.002. Epub
2016 Mar 31.

Traumatic Axonal Injury: Mechanisms and Translational Opportunities.

Hill CS(1), Coleman MP(2), Menon DK(3).

Author information: 
(1)John van Geest Centre for Brain Repair, University of Cambridge, Cambridge,
UK. Electronic address: csch2@cam.ac.uk. (2)John van Geest Centre for Brain
Repair, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. (3)John van Geest Centre for
Brain Repair, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK; Division of Anaesthesia,
Department of Medicine, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK; Wolfson Brain
Imaging Centre, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, UK.

Traumatic axonal injury (TAI) is an important pathoanatomical subgroup of
traumatic brain injury (TBI) and a major driver of mortality and functional
impairment. Experimental models have provided insights into the effects of
mechanical deformation on the neuronal cytoskeleton and the subsequent processes 
that drive axonal injury. There is also increasing recognition that axonal or
white matter loss may progress for years post-injury and represent one
mechanistic framework for progressive neurodegeneration after TBI. Previous
trials of novel therapies have failed to make an impact on clinical outcome, in
both TBI in general and TAI in particular. Recent advances in understanding the
cellular and molecular mechanisms of injury have the potential to translate into 
novel therapeutic targets.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.002 
PMID: 27040729  [PubMed - in process]


64. Trends Neurosci. 2016 May;39(5):290-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.001. Epub 2016
Mar 28.

Proliferation and Differentiation Deficits are a Major Convergence Point for
Neurodevelopmental Disorders.

Ernst C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Department 
of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Integrated Program in
Neuroscience, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; McGill Group for Suicide
Studies, Douglas Hospital Research Institute, Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic
address: carl.ernst@mcgill.ca.

Several lines of evidence suggest that proliferation and differentiation in
neural stem cells (NSCs) are a major convergence point of neurodevelopmental
disorders (NDDs). Most genes with truncating mutations are implicated in NSC
proliferation and differentiation (e.g., MBD5, CDKL5, and MECP2). Similarly,
reciprocal deletion/duplication copy-number variants (CNVs), such as 1q21.1 and
16p11.2, are inversely correlated with head size. In addition, pathways such as
MAPK, mTOR, and RAS, which are important in cancer, a disease of uncontrolled
cell proliferation, are implicated in NDDs. These deficits are a measurable
output of patient-derived induced neural progenitor cells, and may represent a
diagnostic tool and a possible clinical intervention point for molecular
therapies, irrespective of genotype.

Crown Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.03.001 
PMID: 27032601  [PubMed - in process]


65. Trends Neurosci. 2016 May;39(5):325-39. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.001. Epub
2016 Mar 15.

Secondary Progression in Multiple Sclerosis: Neuronal Exhaustion or Distinct
Pathology?

Larochelle C(1), Uphaus T(2), Prat A(3), Zipp F(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Focus Program Translational Neuroscience (FTN) and
Immunotherapy (FZI), Rhine-Main Neuroscience Network (rmn(2)), University Medical
Centre of the Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany; Neuroimmunology Unit,
Department of Neuroscience, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de
l'Université de Montréal (CRCHUM), Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada.
(2)Department of Neurology, Focus Program Translational Neuroscience (FTN) and
Immunotherapy (FZI), Rhine-Main Neuroscience Network (rmn(2)), University Medical
Centre of the Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany. (3)Neuroimmunology
Unit, Department of Neuroscience, Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de
l'Université de Montréal (CRCHUM), Université de Montréal, Montréal, Canada.
(4)Department of Neurology, Focus Program Translational Neuroscience (FTN) and
Immunotherapy (FZI), Rhine-Main Neuroscience Network (rmn(2)), University Medical
Centre of the Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany. Electronic address:
frauke.zipp@unimedizin-mainz.de.

Prevention of progression in neurological diseases, particularly in multiple
sclerosis (MS) but also in neurodegenerative diseases, remains a significant
challenge. MS patients switch from a relapsing-remitting to a progressive disease
course, but it is not understood why and how this conversion occurs and why some 
patients never experience disease progression. Do aging and accumulation of
neuronal damage induce progression, or do cognitive symptoms and accelerated grey
matter (GM) atrophy point to distinct processes affecting networks? This review
weighs accepted dogma against real data on the secondary progressive phase of the
disease, highlighting current challenges in this important field and directions
towards development of treatment strategies to slow or prevent progression of
disability.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.001 
PMID: 26987259  [PubMed - in process]


66. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Apr;39(4):264-75. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.003. Epub
2016 Mar 14.

Npas4: Linking Neuronal Activity to Memory.

Sun X(1), Lin Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA; Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA; Molecular and
Cellular Neuroscience Graduate Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77
Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. (2)McGovern Institute for Brain
Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA;
Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. Electronic address: yingxi@mit.edu.

Immediate-early genes (IEGs) are rapidly activated after sensory and behavioral
experience and are believed to be crucial for converting experience into
long-term memory. Neuronal PAS domain protein 4 (Npas4), a recently discovered
IEG, has several characteristics that make it likely to be a particularly
important molecular link between neuronal activity and memory: it is among the
most rapidly induced IEGs, is expressed only in neurons, and is selectively
induced by neuronal activity. By orchestrating distinct activity-dependent gene
programs in different neuronal populations, Npas4 affects synaptic connections in
excitatory and inhibitory neurons, neural circuit plasticity, and memory
formation. It may also be involved in circuit homeostasis through negative
feedback and psychiatric disorders. We summarize these findings and discuss their
implications.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.003 
PMCID: PMC4818711 [Available on 2017-04-01]
PMID: 26987258  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Apr;39(4):199-201. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.007. Epub
2016 Mar 9.

Aged and Diseased Neurons Get Lost in Transport.

Tamburrino A(1), Decressac M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Telethon Institute of Genetics and Medicine (TIGEM), Pozzuoli, Italy.
(2)Telethon Institute of Genetics and Medicine (TIGEM), Pozzuoli, Italy.
Electronic address: m.decressac@tigem.it.

The maintenance of nucleocytoplasmic compartmentalization is essential for proper
cellular function. Recent studies from the Gage and the Hipp labs report
impairments in transport across the nuclear envelope in models of normal and
pathological neuronal senescence, providing a mechanistic link between cerebral
aging and neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.007 
PMID: 26970902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Apr;39(4):221-34. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.002. Epub
2016 Mar 9.

The Autophagy-Lysosomal Pathway in Neurodegeneration: A TFEB Perspective.

Martini-Stoica H(1), Xu Y(2), Ballabio A(3), Zheng H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Huffington Center on Aging, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA;
Interdepartmental Program in Translational Biology and Molecular Medicine, Baylor
College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA; Medical Scientist Training Program, Baylor
College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA. (2)Huffington Center on Aging, Baylor
College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA. (3)Department of Molecular and Human
Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX; Dan and Jan Duncan
Neurological Research Institute, Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, TX, USA;
Telethon Institute of Genetics and Medicine (TIGEM) and Department of
Translational Medical Sciences, Frederico II University, Naples, Italy.
(4)Huffington Center on Aging, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA;
Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 
TX. Electronic address: huiz@bcm.edu.

The autophagy-lysosomal pathway (ALP) is involved in the degradation of
long-lived proteins. Deficits in the ALP result in protein aggregation, the
generation of toxic protein species, and accumulation of dysfunctional
organelles, which are hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease 
(PD), Huntington's disease (HD), and prion disease. Decades of research have
therefore focused on enhancing the ALP in neurodegenerative diseases. More
recently, transcription factor EB (TFEB), a major regulator of autophagy and
lysosomal biogenesis, has emerged as a leading factor in addressing disease
pathology. We review the regulation of the ALP and TFEB and their impact on
neurodegenerative diseases. We also offer our perspective on the complex role of 
autophagy and TFEB in disease pathogenesis and its therapeutic implications
through the examination of prion disease.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.002 
PMCID: PMC4928589 [Available on 2017-04-01]
PMID: 26968346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Apr;39(4):246-63. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.004. Epub
2016 Mar 7.

Pushing Forward: Remyelination as the New Frontier in CNS Diseases.

Kremer D(1), Göttle P(1), Hartung HP(2), Küry P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical Faculty, University of Düsseldorf, 40225
Düsseldorf, Germany. (2)Department of Neurology, Medical Faculty, University of
Düsseldorf, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany. Electronic address:
hans-peter.hartung@uni-duesseldorf.de. (3)Department of Neurology, Medical
Faculty, University of Düsseldorf, 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany. Electronic address:
kuery@uni-duesseldorf.de.

The evolutionary acquisition of myelin sheaths around large caliber axons in the 
central nervous system (CNS) represented a milestone in the development of
vertebrate higher brain function. Myelin ensheathment of axons enabled saltatory 
conduction and thus accelerated information processing. However, a number of CNS 
diseases harm or destroy myelin and oligodendrocytes (myelin-producing cells),
ultimately resulting in demyelination. In the adult CNS, new oligodendrocytes can
be generated from a quiescent pool of precursor cells, which - upon
differentiation - can replace lost myelin sheaths. The efficiency of this
spontaneous regeneration is limited, which leads to incomplete remyelination and 
residual clinical symptoms. Here, we discuss CNS pathologies characterized by
white matter degeneration and regeneration and highlight drugs that could
potentially serve as remyelination therapies.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.004 
PMID: 26964504  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Apr;39(4):202-11. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.009. Epub
2016 Feb 27.

Can Molecular Gradients Wire the Brain?

Goodhill GJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Queensland Brain Institute and School of Mathematics and Physics, The
University of Queensland, St Lucia, QLD 4072, Australia. Electronic address:
g.goodhill@uq.edu.au.

Concentration gradients are believed to play a key role in guiding axons to their
appropriate targets during neural development. However, there are fundamental
physical constraints on gradient detection, and these strongly limit the fidelity
with which axons can respond to gradient cues. I discuss these constraints and
argue they suggest that many axon guidance events in vivo cannot be explained
solely in terms of gradient-based mechanisms. Rather, precise wiring requires the
collaboration of gradients with other types of guidance cues. Since we know
relatively little about how this might work, I argue that our understanding of
how the brain becomes wired up during development is still at an early stage.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.009 
PMID: 26927836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Apr;39(4):212-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.004. Epub
2016 Feb 18.

Painful Issues in Pain Prediction.

Hu L(1), Iannetti GD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China;
Department of Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology, University College
London, London, UK; Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality (Ministry of
Education) and Faculty of Psychology, Southwest University, Chongqing, China.
Electronic address: hulitju@gmail.com. (2)Department of Neuroscience, Physiology 
and Pharmacology, University College London, London, UK. Electronic address:
g.iannetti@ucl.ac.uk.

How perception of pain emerges from neural activity is largely unknown.
Identifying a neural 'pain signature' and deriving a way to predict perceived
pain from brain activity would have enormous basic and clinical implications.
Researchers are increasingly turning to functional brain imaging, often applying 
machine-learning algorithms to infer that pain perception occurred. Yet, such
sophisticated analyses are fraught with interpretive difficulties. Here, we
highlight some common and troublesome problems in the literature, and suggest
methods to ensure researchers draw accurate conclusions from their results. Since
functional brain imaging is increasingly finding practical applications with
real-world consequences, it is critical to interpret brain scans accurately,
because decisions based on neural data will only be as good as the science behind
them.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.004 
PMID: 26898163  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Apr;39(4):235-45. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.007. Epub
2016 Feb 10.

Calpain-1 and Calpain-2: The Yin and Yang of Synaptic Plasticity and
Neurodegeneration.

Baudry M(1), Bi X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Western University of Health Sciences, Pomona, CA 91766, USA. Electronic
address: mbaudry@westernu.edu. (2)Western University of Health Sciences, Pomona, 
CA 91766, USA.

Many signaling pathways participate in both synaptic plasticity and neuronal
degeneration. While calpains participate in these phenomena, very few studies
have evaluated the respective roles of the two major calpain isoforms in the
brain, calpain-1 and calpain-2. We review recent studies indicating that
calpain-1 and calpain-2 exhibit opposite functions in both synaptic plasticity
and neurodegeneration. Calpain-1 activation is required for the induction of
long-term potentiation (LTP) and is generally neuroprotective, while calpain-2
activation limits the extent of potentiation and is neurodegenerative. This
duality of functions is related to their associations with different PDZ-binding 
proteins, resulting in differential subcellular localization, and offers new
therapeutic opportunities for a number of indications in which these proteases
have previously been implicated.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.007 
PMCID: PMC4818674 [Available on 2017-04-01]
PMID: 26874794  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Mar 22. pii: S0166-2236(16)00047-3. doi:
10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.006. [Epub ahead of print]

NMDA Receptor Internalization by Autoantibodies: A Reversible Mechanism
Underlying Psychosis?

Masdeu JC(1), Dalmau J(2), Berman KF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Houston Methodist Neurological Institute and Department of Neurology, Weill
Cornell Medical College, Houston, TX 77030, USA. Electronic address:
jcmasdeu@houstonmethodist.org. (2)ICREA-IDIBAPS, Hospital Clinic, Service of
Neurology, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Department of Neurology,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. (3)Clinical and
Translational Neuroscience Branch, National Institutes of Health, NIMH Intramural
Research Program, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Since the early 1990s it has been postulated that hypofunction of
N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in brain networks supporting perception and
cognition underlies schizophrenic psychosis. Recently, NMDA receptor hypofunction
was described in patients with psychotic manifestations who exhibited
autoantibodies binding the GluN1 subunit of the receptor, and who improved when
the level of these antibodies was lowered by immunomodulation. In this disorder, 
NMDA receptor antibodies decrease the availability of NMDA receptors by
internalizing them. In this opinion article, we review this mechanism as well as 
data supporting or refuting the possibility that this disorder or similar
autoimmune disorders affecting synaptic proteins, which are therefore treatable
with immunomodulation, could account for some cases of idiopathic psychosis. We
also suggest methodological approaches to clarify this issue.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.02.006 
PMID: 27130657  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


74. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Mar;39(3):146-57. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.008. Epub
2016 Feb 15.

There's Something Wrong with my MAM; the ER-Mitochondria Axis and
Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Paillusson S(1), Stoica R(1), Gomez-Suaga P(1), Lau DH(1), Mueller S(1), Miller
T(2), Miller CC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, Institute of Psychiatry,
Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, London, SE5 9NU, UK.
(2)Churchill Hospital, Old Road, Headington, Oxford, OX3 7LE, UK. Electronic
address: tanya.miller1@nhs.net. (3)Department of Basic and Clinical Neuroscience,
Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London,
London, SE5 9NU, UK. Electronic address: chris.miller@kcl.ac.uk.

Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis with associated frontotemporal dementia (ALS/FTD) are major
neurodegenerative diseases for which there are no cures. All are characterised by
damage to several seemingly disparate cellular processes. The broad nature of
this damage makes understanding pathogenic mechanisms and devising new treatments
difficult. Can the different damaged functions be linked together in a common
disease pathway and which damaged function should be targeted for therapy? Many
functions damaged in neurodegenerative diseases are regulated by communications
that mitochondria make with a specialised region of the endoplasmic reticulum
(ER; mitochondria-associated ER membranes or 'MAM'). Moreover, several recent
studies have shown that disturbances to ER-mitochondria contacts occur in
neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we review these findings.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.008 
PMCID: PMC4780428
PMID: 26899735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Mar;39(3):183-97. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.005. Epub
2016 Feb 16.

The Nanophysiology of Fast Transmitter Release.

Stanley EF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Synaptic Transmission, KD 7-418, The Krembil Institute, 60
Leonard Street, Toronto, ON M5T 2S8, Canada. Electronic address:
elise.f.stanley@gmail.com.

Action potentials invading the presynaptic terminal trigger discharge of docked
synaptic vesicles (SVs) by opening voltage-dependent calcium channels (CaVs) and 
admitting calcium ions (Ca(2+)), which diffuse to, and activate, SV sensors. At
most synapses, SV sensors and CaVs are sufficiently close that release is gated
by individual CaV Ca(2+) nanodomains centered on the channel mouth. Other
synapses gate SV release with extensive Ca(2+) microdomains summed from many,
more distant CaVs. We review the experimental preparations, theories, and methods
that provided principles of release nanophysiology and highlight expansion of the
field into synaptic diversity and modifications of release gating for specific
synaptic demands. Specializations in domain gating may adapt the terminal for
roles in development, transmission of rapid impulse frequencies, and modulation
of synaptic strength.

Copyright © 2016 The Author. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.005 
PMID: 26896416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Mar;39(3):136-45. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.006. Epub
2016 Feb 12.

Neural Mechanisms Underlying Anxiety-Chronic Pain Interactions.

Zhuo M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuron and Disease, Frontier Institutes of Science and Technology, 
Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, 710049, China; Department of Physiology,
Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, 1 King's College Circle, Toronto,
Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada; Centre for the study of Pain, University of Toronto,
Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada. Electronic address: minzhuo10@gmail.com.

Chronic pain is a major medical problem that is resistant to conventional medical
intervention. It also causes emotional changes such as anxiety and fear.
Furthermore, anxiety or fear often enhances the suffering of pain. Based on
recent studies, I propose chronic anxiety triggered by injury or chronic pain is 
mediated through presynaptic long-term potentiation (LTP) in the anterior
cingulate cortex (ACC), a key cortical region for pain perception. Conversely,
NMDA receptor-dependent postsynaptic LTP plays a more important role in
behavioral sensitization in chronic pain. Thus, postsynaptic and presynaptic LTP 
in ACC neurons are likely the key cellular mechanisms for causing chronic pain
and its associated anxiety, respectively. This suggests potential targets for
treating chronic pain and related anxiety.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.006 
PMID: 26878750  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Mar;39(3):125-35. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.001. Epub
2016 Jan 29.

Metastability and Coherence: Extending the Communication through Coherence
Hypothesis Using A Whole-Brain Computational Perspective.

Deco G(1), Kringelbach ML(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institució Catalana de la Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Universitat
Pompeu Fabra, Passeig Lluís Companys 23, Barcelona, 08010, Spain. Electronic
address: gustavo.deco@upf.edu. (2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford,
Oxford OX3 7JX, UK; Center for Music in the Brain (MIB), Department of Clinical
Medicine, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark. Electronic address:
Morten.Kringelbach@psych.ox.ac.uk.

Understanding the mechanisms for communication in the brain remains one of the
most challenging scientific questions. The communication through coherence (CTC) 
hypothesis was originally proposed 10 years ago, stating that two groups of
neurons communicate most effectively when their excitability fluctuations are
coordinated in time (i.e., coherent), and this control by cortical coherence is a
fundamental brain mechanism for large-scale, distant communication. In light of
new evidence from whole-brain computational modelling of multimodal neuroimaging 
data, we link CTC to the concept of metastability, which refers to a rich
exploration of the functional repertoire made possible by the underlying
structural whole-brain connectivity.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.001 
PMID: 26833259  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Mar;39(3):170-82. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.002. Epub
2016 Jan 30.

Postsynaptic Neurotransmitter Receptor Reserve Pools for Synaptic Potentiation.

Kneussel M(1), Hausrat TJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Neurogenetics, Center for Molecular Neurobiology,
ZMNH, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Falkenried 94, 20251 Hamburg, 
Germany. Electronic address: matthias.kneussel@zmnh.uni-hamburg.de. (2)Department
of Molecular Neurogenetics, Center for Molecular Neurobiology, ZMNH, University
Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Falkenried 94, 20251 Hamburg, Germany.

At excitatory and inhibitory synapses, an immediate transfer of additional
neurotransmitter receptors from non-synaptic positions to the synapse mediates
synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP). Different types of non-synaptic reserve
pools permit the rapid supply of transmembrane neurotransmitter receptors.
Recycling endosomes (REs) serve as an intracellular reservoir of receptors that
is delivered to the plasma membrane on LTP induction. Furthermore, AMPA receptors
at the non-synaptic plasma membrane provide an extrasynaptic reserve pool that is
also important to potentiate synapse function. Finally, bidirectional synaptic
versus extrasynaptic trapping of freely diffusing plasma membrane GABAA receptors
(GABAARs) by scaffolding proteins modulates synaptic transmission. Here we
discuss novel findings regarding neurotransmitter receptor reservoirs and
potential reserve pool mechanisms for synaptic potentiation.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.002 
PMID: 26833258  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Mar;39(3):158-69. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.003. Epub
2016 Jan 30.

BACE1 Physiological Functions May Limit Its Use as Therapeutic Target for
Alzheimer's Disease.

Barão S(1), Moechars D(2), Lichtenthaler SF(3), De Strooper B(4).

Author information: 
(1)VIB Center for the Biology of Disease, 3000 Leuven, Belgium; Center for Human 
Genetics, Universitaire Ziekenhuizen and LIND, KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Neuroscience Department, Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research and
Development, Janssen Pharmaceutica, Turnhoutseweg 30, 2340 Beerse, Belgium.
(3)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) and Munich Cluster for
Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Feodor-Lynen-Straße 17, 81377 München, Germany;
Neuroproteomics, Klinikum Rechts der Isar, and Institute for Advanced Study,
Technische Universität München, 81675 München, Germany. (4)VIB Center for the
Biology of Disease, 3000 Leuven, Belgium; Center for Human Genetics,
Universitaire Ziekenhuizen and LIND, KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium; Institute
of Neurology, University College London, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK.
Electronic address: Bart.DeStrooper@cme.vib-kuleuven.be.

The protease β-site amyloid precursor protein (APP)-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is 
required for the production of the amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide, which is central to
the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Chronic inhibition of this protease
may temper amyloid production and cure or prevent AD. However, while BACE1
inhibitors are being pushed forward as drug candidates, a remarkable gap in
knowledge on the physiological functions of BACE1 and its close homolog BACE2
becomes apparent. Here we discuss the major discoveries of the past 3 years
concerning BACE1 biology and to what extent these could limit the use of BACE1
inhibitors in the clinic.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2016.01.003 
PMID: 26833257  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Feb;39(2):100-13. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.008.

Rett Syndrome: Crossing the Threshold to Clinical Translation.

Katz DM(1), Bird A(2), Coenraads M(3), Gray SJ(4), Menon DU(5), Philpot BD(6),
Tarquinio DC(7).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurosciences and Psychiatry, Case Western Reserve University
School of Medicine, 10900 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. Electronic
address: david.katz@case.edu. (2)Wellcome Trust Centre for Cell Biology,
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK. (3)Rett Syndrome Research Trust, 67 Under
Cliff Road, Trumbull, CT 06611, USA. (4)Gene Therapy Center and Department of
Ophthalmology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC USA. (5)Department
of Genetics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, 
USA. (6)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Neuroscience Center, and
Carolina Institute for Developmental Disabilities, UNC School of Medicine, Chapel
Hill, NC 27599, USA. (7)Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Emory University, 1605 
Chantilly Drive NE, Atlanta, GA 30324, USA.

Lying at the intersection between neurobiology and epigenetics, Rett syndrome
(RTT) has garnered intense interest in recent years, not only from a broad range 
of academic scientists, but also from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industries. In addition to the critical need for treatments for this devastating 
disorder, optimism for developing RTT treatments derives from a unique
convergence of factors, including a known monogenic cause, reversibility of
symptoms in preclinical models, a strong clinical research infrastructure
highlighted by an NIH-funded natural history study and well-established clinics
with significant patient populations. Here, we review recent advances in
understanding the biology of RTT, particularly promising preclinical findings,
lessons from past clinical trials, and critical elements of trial design for rare
disorders.

Copyright © 2016. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.008 
PMCID: PMC4924590
PMID: 26830113  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Feb;39(2):63-73. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.009. Epub 2016
Jan 17.

Computational Psychiatry of ADHD: Neural Gain Impairments across Marrian Levels
of Analysis.

Hauser TU(1), Fiore VG(2), Moutoussis M(2), Dolan RJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, University College London, London,
WC1N 3BG, UK; Max Planck UCL Centre for Computational Psychiatry and Ageing
Research, London, WC1B 5EH, UK. Electronic address: t.hauser@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, University College London, London,
WC1N 3BG, UK. (3)Wellcome Trust Centre for Neuroimaging, University College
London, London, WC1N 3BG, UK; Max Planck UCL Centre for Computational Psychiatry 
and Ageing Research, London, WC1B 5EH, UK.

Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), one of the most common
psychiatric disorders, is characterised by unstable response patterns across
multiple cognitive domains. However, the neural mechanisms that explain these
characteristic features remain unclear. Using a computational multilevel
approach, we propose that ADHD is caused by impaired gain modulation in systems
that generate this phenotypic increased behavioural variability. Using Marr's
three levels of analysis as a heuristic framework, we focus on this variable
behaviour, detail how it can be explained algorithmically, and how it might be
implemented at a neural level through catecholamine influences on corticostriatal
loops. This computational, multilevel, approach to ADHD provides a framework for 
bridging gaps between descriptions of neuronal activity and behaviour, and
provides testable predictions about impaired mechanisms.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.009 
PMCID: PMC4746317
PMID: 26787097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Feb;39(2):86-99. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.004. Epub 2016
Jan 8.

Diverse Phase Relations among Neuronal Rhythms and Their Potential Function.

Maris E(1), Fries P(2), van Ede F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Radboud University, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and Behaviour,
6525 EZ, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: e.maris@donders.ru.n.
(2)Radboud University, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and Behaviour,
6525 EZ, Nijmegen, The Netherlands; Ernst Strüngmann Institute (ESI) for
Neuroscience in Cooperation with Max Planck Society, 60528, Frankfurt, Germany.
(3)Radboud University, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and Behaviour,
6525 EZ, Nijmegen, The Netherlands; Oxford Centre for Human Brain Activity,
Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, OX3 7JX, Oxford, UK.

Neuronal oscillations at nearby sites in the brain often show phase relations
that are consistent across time, yet diverse across space. We discuss recent
demonstrations of this phase relation diversity, and show that, contrary to
earlier beliefs, this diversity is a general property of oscillations that is
neither restricted to low-frequency oscillations nor to periods outside of
stimulus processing. Arguing for the computational relevance of phase relation
diversity, we discuss that it can be modulated by sensory and motor events, and
put forward the idea that phase relation diversity may support effective neuronal
communication by (i) enhancing selectivity and (ii) allowing for the concurrent
segregation of multiple information streams.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.004 
PMID: 26778721  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Feb;39(2):51-3. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.010. Epub 2016 
Jan 6.

Fight, Flight, or Freeze? The Answer May Depend on Your Sex.

Jones CE(1), Monfils MH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Texas at Austin, 1 University Station,
A8000 Austin, TX 78712, USA. (2)Department of Psychology, University of Texas at 
Austin, 1 University Station, A8000 Austin, TX 78712, USA. Electronic address:
marie.monfils@utexas.edu.

Comment on
    Elife. 2015;4. pii: e11352. doi: 10.7554/eLife.11352.

Pavlovian fear conditioning is one of the most common and well-understood methods
for studying fear learning. However, research is predominantly performed in
males. Recently, in a classical Pavlovian fear conditioning paradigm, Gruene and 
colleagues described an active conditioned fear response ('darting') prevalent in
female rats that better maintain an extinction memory.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.010 
PMID: 26776563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Feb;39(2):74-85. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.007. Epub 2016
Jan 15.

Defining Auditory-Visual Objects: Behavioral Tests and Physiological Mechanisms.

Bizley JK(1), Maddox RK(2), Lee AK(3).

Author information: 
(1)University College London (UCL) Ear Institute, 332 Gray's Inn Road, London,
WC1X 8EE, UK. Electronic address: j.bizley@ucl.ac.uk. (2)Institute for Learning
and Brain Sciences, University of Washington, 1715 NE Columbia Road, Portage Bay 
Building, Box 357988, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. (3)Institute for Learning and Brain
Sciences, University of Washington, 1715 NE Columbia Road, Portage Bay Building, 
Box 357988, Seattle, WA 98195, USA; Department of Speech and Hearing Sciences,
University of Washington, 1417 NE 42nd Street, Eagleson Hall, Box 354875,
Seattle, WA 98105, USA. Electronic address: akclee@uw.edu.

Crossmodal integration is a term applicable to many phenomena in which one
sensory modality influences task performance or perception in another sensory
modality. We distinguish the term binding as one that should be reserved
specifically for the process that underpins perceptual object formation. To
unambiguously differentiate binding form other types of integration, behavioral
and neural studies must investigate perception of a feature orthogonal to the
features that link the auditory and visual stimuli. We argue that supporting true
perceptual binding (as opposed to other processes such as decision-making) is one
role for cross-sensory influences in early sensory cortex. These early
multisensory interactions may therefore form a physiological substrate for the
bottom-up grouping of auditory and visual stimuli into auditory-visual (AV)
objects.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.007 
PMCID: PMC4738154 [Available on 2017-02-01]
PMID: 26775728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Feb;39(2):114-23. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.006. Epub
2016 Jan 13.

Sensory Plasticity in Human Motor Learning.

Ostry DJ(1), Gribble PL(2).

Author information: 
(1)McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Haskins Laboratories, New Haven, CT, 
USA. Electronic address: david.ostry@mcgill.ca. (2)Haskins Laboratories, New
Haven, CT, USA; University of Western Ontario, London, ON, Canada.

There is accumulating evidence from behavioral, neurophysiological, and
neuroimaging studies that the acquisition of motor skills involves both
perceptual and motor learning. Perceptual learning alters movements, motor
learning, and motor networks of the brain. Motor learning changes perceptual
function and the sensory circuits of the brain. Here, we review studies of both
human limb movement and speech that indicate that plasticity in sensory and motor
systems is reciprocally linked. Taken together, this points to an approach to
motor learning in which perceptual learning and sensory plasticity have a
fundamental role.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.006 
PMCID: PMC4737984 [Available on 2017-02-01]
PMID: 26774345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Feb;39(2):54-62. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.005. Epub 2015
Dec 30.

Call it Worm Sleep.

Trojanowski NF(1), Raizen DM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. (2)Department of Neurology, Perelman School 
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. Electronic
address: raizen@mail.med.upenn.edu.

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans stops feeding and moving during a larval
transition stage called lethargus and following exposure to cellular stressors.
These behaviors have been termed 'sleep-like states'. We argue that these
behaviors should instead be called sleep. Sleep during lethargus is similar to
sleep regulated by circadian timers in insects and mammals, and sleep in response
to cellular stress is similar to sleep induced by sickness in other animals.
Sleep in mammals and Drosophila shows molecular and functional conservation with 
C. elegans sleep. The simple neuroanatomy and powerful genetic tools of C.
elegans have yielded insights into sleep regulation and hold great promise for
future research into sleep regulation and function.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.005 
PMCID: PMC4738085 [Available on 2017-02-01]
PMID: 26747654  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Feb;39(2):49-51. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.003. Epub 2015
Dec 30.

A Subcortical Pathway for Rapid, Goal-Driven, Attentional Filtering.

Phillips JM(1), Kambi NA(1), Saalmann YB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, WI, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, WI, USA. Electronic
address: saalmann@wisc.edu.

Comment on
    Nature. 2015 Oct 29;526(7575):705-9.

Prefrontal cortex can exercise goal-driven attentional control over sensory
information via cortical pathways. However, recent work demonstrates that
prefrontal cortex can also influence thalamic relay nuclei via the thalamic
reticular nucleus. This suggests the prefrontal-thalamic pathway mediates rapid
and goal-driven attentional filtering at the earliest stages of sensory
processing.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.003 
PMID: 26743499  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jan;39(1):16-25. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.11.004.

Oscillations and Episodic Memory: Addressing the
Synchronization/Desynchronization Conundrum.

Hanslmayr S(1), Staresina BP(2), Bowman H(3).

Author information: 
(1)University of Birmingham, School of Psychology, Birmingham, UK. Electronic
address: s.hanslmayr@bham.ac.uk. (2)University of Birmingham, School of
Psychology, Birmingham, UK. (3)University of Birmingham, School of Psychology,
Birmingham, UK; University of Kent, School of Computing, Canterbury, UK.

Brain oscillations are one of the core mechanisms underlying episodic memory.
However, while some studies highlight the role of synchronized oscillatory
activity, others highlight the role of desynchronized activity. We here describe 
a framework to resolve this conundrum and integrate these two opposing
oscillatory behaviors. Specifically, we argue that the synchronization and
desynchronization reflect a division of labor between a hippocampal and a
neocortical system, respectively. We describe a novel oscillatory framework that 
integrates synchronization and desynchronization mechanisms to explain how the
two systems interact in the service of episodic memory.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.11.004 
PMCID: PMC4819444
PMID: 26763659  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jan;39(1):26-39. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.11.001. Epub 2015
Dec 23.

Roles of Presynaptic NMDA Receptors in Neurotransmission and Plasticity.

Banerjee A(1), Larsen RS(2), Philpot BD(3), Paulsen O(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA. (2)Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle,
WA, USA. (3)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Neuroscience Center, and
Carolina Institute for Developmental Disabilities, University of North Carolina, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Electronic address: bphilpot@med.unc.edu. (4)Department of 
Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
Electronic address: op210@cam.ac.uk.

Presynaptic NMDA receptors (preNMDARs) play pivotal roles in excitatory
neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity. They facilitate presynaptic
neurotransmitter release and modulate mechanisms controlling synaptic maturation 
and plasticity during formative periods of brain development. There is an
increasing understanding of the roles of preNMDARs in experience-dependent
synaptic and circuit-specific computation. In this review we summarize the latest
understanding of compartment-specific expression and function of preNMDARs, and
how they contribute to synapse-specific and circuit-level information processing.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.11.001 
PMCID: PMC4716805
PMID: 26726120  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jan;39(1):2-4. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.002. Epub 2015
Dec 21.

Warning! Dopaminergic Modulation of the Superior Colliculus.

Essig J(1), Felsen G(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Colorado School of
Medicine, Aurora, CO 80045, USA; Neuroscience Program, University of Colorado
School of Medicine, Aurora, CO 80045, USA. (2)Department of Physiology and
Biophysics, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO 80045, USA;
Neuroscience Program, University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, CO
80045, USA. Electronic address: gidon.felsen@ucdenver.edu.

Comment on
    Cell Rep. 2015 Nov 3;13(5):1003-15.

Recent work by Bolton et al. describes a dopaminergic input to the superior
colliculus (SC) from the zona incerta, as well as the organization of D1- and
D2-receptor expression in the SC. We discuss a potential role for this input in
modulating SC-mediated behavior, particularly in response to aversive stimuli.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.002 
PMCID: PMC4866502
PMID: 26717852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jan;39(1):1-2. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.001. Epub 2015
Dec 17.

A Spinal Circuit for Mechanically-Evoked Itch.

Davidson S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pain Research Center, Department of Anesthesiology, University of Cincinnati
College of Medicine, Cincinnati, OH 45267, USA. Electronic address:
steve.davidson@uc.edu.

Comment on
    Science. 2015 Oct 30;350(6260):550-4.

A satisfactory neurobiological understanding of itch has proved difficult to
reach. Bourane et al. have now uncovered a previously unrecognized spinal circuit
for mechanically-induced itch and elucidated a mechanism that keeps it in check. 
Dysregulation of this circuit could contribute to chronic itch, suggesting a new 
strategy for itch relief.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.12.001 
PMID: 26708015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jan;39(1):40-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.11.002. Epub 2015 
Dec 11.

Neural Basis of Strategic Decision Making.

Lee D(1), Seo H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar
Street, New Haven, CT 06510, USA; Kavli Institute for Neuroscience, Yale
University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street, New Haven, CT 06510, USA;
Department of Psychology, Yale University, 2 Hillhouse Avenue, New Haven, CT
06520, USA. Electronic address: daeyeol.lee@yale.edu. (2)Department of
Neuroscience, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street, New Haven, CT
06510, USA.

Human choice behaviors during social interactions often deviate from the
predictions of game theory. This might arise partly from the limitations in the
cognitive abilities necessary for recursive reasoning about the behaviors of
others. In addition, during iterative social interactions, choices might change
dynamically as knowledge about the intentions of others and estimates for choice 
outcomes are incrementally updated via reinforcement learning. Some of the brain 
circuits utilized during social decision making might be general-purpose and
contribute to isomorphic individual and social decision making. By contrast,
regions in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and temporal parietal junction
(TPJ) might be recruited for cognitive processes unique to social decision
making.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.11.002 
PMCID: PMC4713315
PMID: 26688301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Trends Neurosci. 2016 Jan;39(1):5-15. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.11.003. Epub 2015 
Dec 12.

FGFR1-5-HT1A Heteroreceptor Complexes: Implications for Understanding and
Treating Major Depression.

Borroto-Escuela DO(1), Tarakanov AO(2), Fuxe K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Retzius väg 8, 17177
Stockholm, Sweden. (2)Russian Academy of Sciences, Saint Petersburg Institute for
Informatics and Automation, Saint Petersburg, Russia. (3)Department of
Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Retzius väg 8, 17177 Stockholm, Sweden.
Electronic address: Kjell.Fuxe@ki.se.

The serotonin and neurotrophic factor hypotheses of depression are well known.
The discovery of brain fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1)-5
hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A (5-HT1A) heteroreceptor complexes, and their
enhancement of neuroplasticity, offers an integration of these hypotheses at the 
molecular level. They were first described in the hippocampus and later in
midbrain 5-HT neurons, where these heterocomplexes are enriched in 5-HT1A
autoreceptors. Combined FGF2 and 5-HT1A agonist treatment increased the formation
of these heterocomplexes and the facilitatory allosteric receptor-receptor
interactions within them led to the enhancement of FGFR1 signaling and was
associated with the development of antidepressant effects. We discuss these
findings with regard to a theory of motifs critically involved in these
interactions and suggest that these complexes represent novel targets for
antidepressants.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.11.003 
PMID: 26687454  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Dec;38(12):763-75. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.10.004. Epub
2015 Nov 24.

Grid Cells and Place Cells: An Integrated View of their Navigational and Memory
Function.

Sanders H(1), Rennó-Costa C(2), Idiart M(3), Lisman J(4).

Author information: 
(1)Volen Center for Complex Systems, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02454, USA.
(2)Brain Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN 59066,
Brazil. (3)Physics Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Avenida
Bento Gonçalves 9500, Porto Alegre, RS, 91501-970, Brazil. (4)Volen Center for
Complex Systems, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02454, USA. Electronic address:
lisman@brandeis.edu.

Much has been learned about the hippocampal/entorhinal system, but an overview of
how its parts work in an integrated way is lacking. One question regards the
function of entorhinal grid cells. We propose here that their fundamental
function is to provide a coordinate system for producing mind-travel in the
hippocampus, a process that accesses associations with upcoming positions. We
further propose that mind-travel occurs during the second half of each theta
cycle. By contrast, the first half of each theta cycle is devoted to computing
current position using sensory information from the lateral entorhinal cortex
(LEC) and path integration information from the medial entorhinal cortex (MEC).
This model explains why MEC lesions can abolish hippocampal phase precession but 
not place fields.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.10.004 
PMCID: PMC4679502
PMID: 26616686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Dec;38(12):800-12. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.10.003. Epub
2015 Nov 19.

Neurocognitive Aging and the Hippocampus across Species.

Leal SL(1), Yassa MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD, USA; Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Institute for Memory
Impairments and Neurological Disorders, and Center for the Neurobiology of
Learning and Memory, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA. (2)Department of 
Neurobiology and Behavior, Institute for Memory Impairments and Neurological
Disorders, and Center for the Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, University of 
California, Irvine, CA, USA. Electronic address: myassa@uci.edu.

There is extensive evidence that aging is associated with impairments in episodic
memory. Many of these changes have been ascribed to neurobiological alterations
to the hippocampal network and its input pathways. A cross-species consensus is
beginning to emerge suggesting that subtle synaptic and functional changes within
this network may underlie the majority of age-related memory impairments. In this
review we survey convergent data from animal and human studies that have
contributed significantly to our understanding of the brain-behavior
relationships in this network, particularly in the aging brain. We utilize a
cognitive as well as a neurobiological perspective and synthesize data across
approaches and species to reach a more detailed understanding of age-related
alterations in hippocampal memory function.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.10.003 
PMID: 26607684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Dec;38(12):787-99. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.10.002. Epub
2015 Nov 18.

Controlling Cerebellar Output to Treat Refractory Epilepsy.

Kros L(1), Rooda OH(1), De Zeeuw CI(2), Hoebeek FE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Erasmus Medical Center, Wytemaweg 80, 3015 CN
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. (2)Department of Neuroscience, Erasmus Medical
Center, Wytemaweg 80, 3015 CN Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Netherlands Institute
for Neuroscience, Royal Dutch Academy for Arts and Sciences, Meibergdreef 47,
1105 BA Amsterdam, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Neuroscience, Erasmus
Medical Center, Wytemaweg 80, 3015 CN Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic
address: f.hoebeek@erasmusmc.nl.

Generalized epilepsy is characterized by recurrent seizures caused by oscillatory
neuronal firing throughout thalamocortical networks. Current therapeutic
approaches often intervene at the level of the thalamus or cerebral cortex to
ameliorate seizures. We review here the therapeutic potential of cerebellar
stimulation. The cerebellum forms a prominent ascending input to the thalamus
and, whereas stimulation of the foliated cerebellar cortex exerts inconsistent
results, stimulation of the centrally located cerebellar nuclei (CN) reliably
stops generalized seizures in experimental models. Stimulation of this area
indicates that the period of stimulation with respect to the phase of the
oscillations in thalamocortical networks can optimize its effect, opening up the 
possibility of developing on-demand deep brain stimulation (DBS) treatments.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.10.002 
PMID: 26602765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Dec;38(12):776-86. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.10.001. Epub
2015 Nov 18.

The Yin and Yang of Sleep and Attention.

Kirszenblat L(1), van Swinderen B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD,
Australia. (2)Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, Brisbane,
QLD, Australia. Electronic address: b.vanswinderen@uq.edu.au.

Sleep is not a single state, but a complex set of brain processes that supports
several physiological needs. Sleep deprivation is known to affect attention in
many animals, suggesting that a key function of sleep is to regulate attention.
Conversely, tasks that require more attention drive sleep need and sleep
intensity. Attention involves the ability to filter incoming stimuli based on
their relative salience, and this is likely to require coordinated synaptic
activity across the brain. This capacity may have only become possible with the
evolution of related neural mechanisms that support two key sleep functions:
stimulus suppression and synaptic plasticity. We argue here that sleep and
attention may have coevolved as brain states that regulate each other.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.10.001 
PMCID: PMC4803435
PMID: 26602764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Dec;38(12):751-62. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.10.005.

Homeotic Transformations of Neuronal Cell Identities.

Arlotta P(1), Hobert O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. Electronic address: Paola_Arlotta@harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Biology and Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics,
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
Electronic address: or38@columbia.edu.

Homeosis is classically defined as the transformation of one body part into
something that resembles another body part. We propose here to broaden the
concept of homeosis to the many neuronal cell identity transformations that have 
been uncovered over the past few years upon removal of specific regulatory
factors in organisms from Caenorhabditis elegans to Drosophila, zebrafish, and
mice. The concept of homeosis provides a framework for the evolution of cell type
diversity in the brain.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.10.005 
PMID: 26596501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Nov;38(11):741-50.

Brain Circuits Encoding Reward from Pain Relief.

Navratilova E, Atcherley CW, Porreca F.

Relief from pain in humans is rewarding and pleasurable. Primary rewards, or
reward-predictive cues, are encoded in brain reward/motivational circuits. While 
considerable advances have been made in our understanding of reward circuits
underlying positive reinforcement, less is known about the circuits underlying
the hedonic and reinforcing actions of pain relief. We review findings from
electrophysiological, neuroimaging, and behavioral studies supporting the concept
that the rewarding effect of pain relief requires opioid signaling in the
anterior cingulate cortex (ACC), activation of midbrain dopamine neurons, and the
release of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens (NAc). Understanding of circuits
that govern the reward of pain relief may allow the discovery of more effective
and satisfying therapies for patients with acute or chronic pain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.09.003 
PMCID: PMC4752429
PMID: 26603560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Nov;38(11):725-40. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.09.001.

Neural Cross-Frequency Coupling: Connecting Architectures, Mechanisms, and
Functions.

Hyafil A(1), Giraud AL(2), Fontolan L(2), Gutkin B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Theoretical and Computational Neuroscience, Roc
Boronat 138, 08018 Barcelona, Spain; Research Unit, Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de
Déu and Universitat de Barcelona, Esplugues de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
Electronic address: alexandre.hyafil@gmail.com. (2)Department of Neuroscience,
University of Geneva, Campus Biotech, 9 chemin des Mines, 1211 Geneva,
Switzerland. (3)Group for Neural Theory, Institut National de la Santé et de la
Recherche Médicale (INSERM) Unité 960, Département d'Etudes Cognitives, Ecole
Normale Supérieure, 29 rue d'Ulm, 75005 Paris, France; Centre for Cognition and
Decision Making, National Research University Higher School of Economics,
Myasnitskaya Street 20, Moscow 101000, Russia.

Neural oscillations are ubiquitously observed in the mammalian brain, but it has 
proven difficult to tie oscillatory patterns to specific cognitive operations.
Notably, the coupling between neural oscillations at different timescales has
recently received much attention, both from experimentalists and theoreticians.
We review the mechanisms underlying various forms of this cross-frequency
coupling. We show that different types of neural oscillators and cross-frequency 
interactions yield distinct signatures in neural dynamics. Finally, we associate 
these mechanisms with several putative functions of cross-frequency coupling,
including neural representations of multiple environmental items, communication
over distant areas, internal clocking of neural processes, and modulation of
neural processing based on temporal predictions.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.09.001 
PMID: 26549886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Nov;38(11):712-24. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.010.

New Mendelian Disorders of Painlessness.

Nahorski MS(1), Chen YC(2), Woods CG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, University of Cambridge, Cambridge
CB2 0XY, UK. Electronic address: msn27@cam.ac.uk. (2)Cambridge Institute for
Medical Research, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK. Electronic
address: ycc33@cam.ac.uk. (3)Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, University
of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK. Electronic address: cw347@cam.ac.uk.

Erroneous activation of the pain-sensing system, as in chronic or neuropathic
pain, represents a major health burden with insufficient treatment options.
However, the study of genetic disorders rendering individuals completely unable
to feel pain offers hope. All causes of congenital painlessness affect
nociceptors, evolutionarily conserved specialist neurons able to sense all type
of tissue damage. The discovery of new genes essential for sensing pain (SCN11A, 
PRDM12, and CLTCL1) has provided unexpected insights into the biological
mechanisms that drive distinct stages of nociception. Drugs targeting two
previously discovered painlessness genes, NGF and SCN9A, are currently in
late-stage clinical trials; thus, characterization of these new painlessness
genes has significant potential for the generation of new classes of analgesics.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.010 
PMID: 26549885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Nov;38(11):701-11. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.012.

Neuropeptide Y: An Anti-Aging Player?

Botelho M(1), Cavadas C(2).

Author information: 
(1)CNC - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra,
Coimbra, Portugal; Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)CNC - Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra,
Coimbra, Portugal; Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Coimbra, Coimbra, Portugal.
Electronic address: ccavadas@uc.pt.

Accumulating evidence suggests that neuropeptide Y (NPY) has a role in aging and 
lifespan determination. In this review, we critically discuss age-related changes
in NPY levels in the brain, together with recent findings concerning the
contribution of NPY to, and impact on, six hallmarks of aging, specifically: loss
of proteostasis, stem cell exhaustion, altered intercellular communication,
deregulated nutrient sensing, cellular senescence, and mitochondrial dysfunction.
Understanding how NPY contributes to, and counteracts, these hallmarks of aging
will open new avenues of research on limiting damage related to aging.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.012 
PMID: 26549884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Nov;38(11):682-700. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.009.

Long-Range Attention Networks: Circuit Motifs Underlying Endogenously Controlled 
Stimulus Selection.

Womelsdorf T(1), Everling S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Centre for Vision Research, York University, 4700 Keele
Street, Toronto, Ontario M6J 1P3, Canada. Electronic address: thiwom@yorku.ca.
(2)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Centre for Functional and Metabolic
Mapping, University of Western Ontario, 1151 Richmond Street North, Ontario N6A
5B7, Canada.

Attention networks comprise brain areas whose coordinated activity implements
stimulus selection. This selection is reflected in spatially referenced priority 
maps across frontal-parietal-collicular areas and is controlled through
interactions with circuits representing behavioral goals, including prefrontal,
cingulate, and striatal circuits, among others. We review how these
goal-providing structures control stimulus selection through long-range dynamic
projection motifs. These motifs (i) combine feature-tuned subnetworks to a
distributed priority map, (ii) establish endogenously controlled, long-range
coherent activity at 4-10 Hz theta and 12-30 Hz beta-band frequencies, and (iii) 
are composed of unique cell types implementing long-range networks through
disynaptic disinhibition, dendritic gating, and feedforward inhibitory gain
control. This evidence reveals common circuit motifs used to coordinate
attentionally selected information across multi-node brain networks during
goal-directed behavior.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.009 
PMID: 26549883  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Nov;38(11):674-81. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.008.

Innate Immunity Fights Alzheimer's Disease.

Guillot-Sestier MV(1), Doty KR(1), Town T(2).

Author information: 
(1)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Keck School of Medicine of the University of
Southern California, 1501 San Pablo Street, Room 337, Los Angeles, CA 90089-2821,
USA. (2)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Keck School of Medicine of the University 
of Southern California, 1501 San Pablo Street, Room 337, Los Angeles, CA
90089-2821, USA. Electronic address: ttown@usc.edu.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common age-related dementia. Pathognomonic
accumulation of cerebral β-amyloid plaques likely results from imbalanced
production and removal of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides. In AD, innate immune cells
lose their ability to restrict cerebral Aβ accumulation. At least in principle,
mononuclear phagocytes can be enlisted to clear Aβ/β-amyloid from the brain.
While the classical focus has been on dampening neuroinflammation in the context 
of AD, we hypothesize that rebalancing cerebral innate immunity by inhibiting
actions of key anti-inflammatory cytokines returns the brain to a physiological
state. Recent experiments demonstrating beneficial effects of blocking
anti-inflammatory cytokine signaling in preclinical mouse models provide
supportive evidence. This concept represents an important step toward innate
immune-targeted therapy to combat AD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.008 
PMCID: PMC4641041
PMID: 26549882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Nov;38(11):672-3. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.004.

Ineffective VTA Disinhibition in Protracted Opiate Withdrawal.

Barrot M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut des Neurosciences Cellulaires et Intégratives, Centre National de la 
Recherche Scientifique, 5 rue Blaise Pascal, 67084 Strasbourg, France; Université
de Strasbourg, Strasbourg, France. Electronic address:
mbarrot@inci-cnrs.unistra.fr.

Comment on
    J Neurosci. 2015 Jul 15;35(28):10290-303.

Recently, Kaufling and Aston-Jones showed that, under protracted opiate
withdrawal, control of dopamine activity by the tail of the ventral tegmental
area shifts from a bidirectional influence towards one-way inhibition. Beyond
dysphoric states accompanying withdrawal, these results may also impact research 
on depression and individual differences in coping and affect.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.004 
PMID: 26549881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Nov;38(11):669-71. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.09.002. Epub
2015 Oct 16.

A Postulate on the Brain's Basic Wiring Logic.

Tsien JZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Brain and Behavior Discovery Institute, Augusta University, Medical College of
Georgia, Augusta, GA 30912, USA; Banna Biomedical Research Institute Brain
Decoding Project Consortium, Yunnan, 666100, China. Electronic address:
lvtfcm@gmail.com.

How should evolution and development build the brain to be capable of flexible
and generative cognition? I wish to put forth a 'power-of-two'-based wiring logic
that provides the basic computational principle in organizing the
microarchitecture of cell assemblies that would readily enable knowledge and
adaptive behaviors to emerge upon learning.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.09.002 
PMCID: PMC4920130
PMID: 26482260  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Oct;38(10):659-68. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.011.

Myeloid cells in Alzheimer's disease: culprits, victims or innocent bystanders?

Meyer-Luehmann M(1), Prinz M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany. Electronic
address: melanie.meyer-luehmann@uniklinik-freiburg.de. (2)Institute of
Neuropathology and BIOSS Center for Biological Signaling Studies, University of
Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany. Electronic address:
marco.prinz@uniklinik-freiburg.de.

Several recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) in patients with
neurodegenerative disorders have shed new light on the brain immune system,
suggesting that it plays a pivotal role in disease pathogenesis. Mononuclear
phagocytes are blatantly involved in Alzheimer's disease (AD) of the central
nervous system (CNS), but the specific functions of resident microglia,
perivascular or meningeal macrophages, and circulating myeloid cells have not yet
been fully resolved. Next-generation sequencing, high-throughput immune profiling
technologies, and novel genetic tools have recently revolutionized the
characterization of innate immune responses during AD. These studies advocate
selective and non-redundant roles for myeloid subsets, which could be a target
for novel disease-modifying therapies in AD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.011 
PMID: 26442698  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Oct;38(10):637-58. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.001.

Depression as a microglial disease.

Yirmiya R(1), Rimmerman N(2), Reshef R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem 91905,
Israel. Electronic address: razyirmiya@huji.ac.il. (2)Department of Psychology,
The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem 91905, Israel.

Despite decades of intensive research, the biological mechanisms that causally
underlie depression are still unclear, and therefore the development of novel
effective antidepressant treatments is hindered. Recent studies indicate that
impairment of the normal structure and function of microglia, caused by either
intense inflammatory activation (e.g., following infections, trauma, stroke,
short-term stress, autoimmune or neurodegenerative diseases) or by decline and
senescence of these cells (e.g., during aging, Alzheimer's disease, or chronic
unpredictable stress exposure), can lead to depression and associated impairments
in neuroplasticity and neurogenesis. Accordingly, some forms of depression can be
considered as a microglial disease (microgliopathy), which should be treated by a
personalized medical approach using microglial inhibitors or stimulators
depending on the microglial status of the depressed patient.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.001 
PMID: 26442697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Oct;38(10):621-36. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.006.

Microglial malfunction: the third rail in the development of Alzheimer's disease.

Mhatre SD(1), Tsai CA(2), Rubin AJ(2), James ML(3), Andreasson KI(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA; Stanford Neurosciences Institute, Stanford, CA,
USA. (2)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA; Stanford Neurosciences Institute,
Stanford, CA, USA; Neurosciences Graduate Program, Stanford University, Stanford,
CA, USA. (3)Department of Radiology, Stanford University School of Medicine,
Stanford, CA, USA. (4)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA; Stanford Neurosciences
Institute, Stanford, CA, USA. Electronic address: kandreas@stanford.edu.

Studies of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have predominantly focused on two major
pathologies: amyloid-β (Aβ) and hyperphosphorylated tau. These misfolded proteins
can accumulate asymptomatically in distinct regions over decades. However,
significant Aβ accumulation can be seen in individuals who do not develop
dementia, and tau pathology limited to the transentorhinal cortex, which can
appear early in adulthood, is usually clinically silent. Thus, an interaction
between these pathologies appears to be necessary to initiate and propel disease 
forward to widespread circuits. Recent multidisciplinary findings strongly
suggest that the third factor required for disease progression is an aberrant
microglial immune response. This response may initially be beneficial; however, a
maladaptive microglial response eventually develops, fueling a feed-forward
spread of tau and Aβ pathology.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.006 
PMCID: PMC4670239
PMID: 26442696  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Oct;38(10):609-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.002.

Priming the inflammatory pump of the CNS after traumatic brain injury.

Witcher KG(1), Eiferman DS(2), Godbout JP(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, The Ohio State University, 333 West 10th Avenue,
Columbus, OH, USA. (2)Department of Surgery, The Ohio State University, 395 West 
12th Avenue, Columbus, OH, USA. (3)Department of Neuroscience, The Ohio State
University, 333 West 10th Avenue, Columbus, OH, USA; Center for Brain and Spinal 
Cord Repair, The Ohio State University, 460 West 12th Avenue, Columbus, OH, USA; 
Institute for Behavioral Medicine Research, The Ohio State University, 460
Medical Center Drive, Columbus, OH, USA. Electronic address:
jonathan.godbout@osumc.edu.

Traumatic brain injury (TBI) can lead to secondary neuropsychiatric problems that
develop and persist years after injury. Mounting evidence indicates that
neuroinflammatory processes progress after the initial head injury and worsen
with time. Microglia contribute to this inflammation by maintaining a primed
profile long after the acute effects of the injury have dissipated. This may set 
the stage for glial dysfunction and hyperactivity to challenges including
subsequent head injury, stress, or induction of a peripheral immune response.
This review discusses the evidence that microglia become primed following TBI and
how this corresponds with vulnerability to a 'second hit' and subsequent
neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative complications.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.002 
PMCID: PMC4617563
PMID: 26442695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Oct;38(10):598-608. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.003.

The molecular constituents of the blood-brain barrier.

Chow BW(1), Gu C(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, 220 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, MN 02115, USA. (2)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, 220
Longwood Avenue, Boston, MN 02115, USA. Electronic address:
chenghua_gu@hms.harvard.edu.

The blood-brain barrier (BBB) maintains the optimal microenvironment in the
central nervous system (CNS) for proper brain function. The BBB comprises
specialized CNS endothelial cells with fundamental molecular properties essential
for the function and integrity of the BBB. The restrictive nature of the BBB
hinders the delivery of therapeutics for many neurological disorders. In
addition, recent evidence shows that BBB dysfunction can precede or hasten the
progression of several neurological diseases. Despite the physiological
significance of the BBB in health and disease, major discoveries of the molecular
regulators of BBB formation and function have occurred only recently. This review
highlights recent findings describing the molecular determinants and core
cellular pathways that confer BBB properties on CNS endothelial cells.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.003 
PMCID: PMC4597316
PMID: 26442694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Oct;38(10):585-97. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.007.

System consolidation during sleep - a common principle underlying psychological
and immunological memory formation.

Westermann J(1), Lange T(2), Textor J(3), Born J(4).

Author information: 
(1)University of Luebeck, Institute of Anatomy, Ratzeburger Allee 160, 23538
Luebeck, Germany. (2)University of Luebeck, Medical Clinic I, Ratzeburger Allee
160, 23538 Luebeck, Germany. (3)Utrecht University, Theoretical Biology and
Bioinformatics, Padualaan 8, 3584 CH Utrecht, The Netherlands. (4)University of
Tuebingen, Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology, Center
for Integrative Neuroscience (CIN), and German Center for Diabetes Research
(DZD), Otfried-Mueller-Strasse 25, 72076 Tuebingen, Germany. Electronic address: 
jan.born@uni-tuebingen.de.

Sleep benefits the consolidation of psychological memory, and there are hints
that sleep likewise supports immunological memory formation. Comparing
psychological and immunological domains, we make the case for active system
consolidation that is similarly established in both domains and partly conveyed
by the same sleep-associated processes. In the psychological domain, neuronal
reactivation of declarative memory during slow-wave sleep (SWS) promotes the
redistribution of representations initially stored in hippocampal circuitry to
extra-hippocampal circuitry for long-term storage. In the immunological domain,
SWS seems to favor the redistribution of antigenic memories initially held by
antigen-presenting cells, to persisting T cells serving as a long-term store.
Because storage capacities are limited in both systems, system consolidation
presumably reduces information by abstracting 'gist' for long-term storage.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.007 
PMID: 26442693  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Oct;38(10):583-4. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.007.

A learning experience.

Clark A(1), Rivas F(2).

Author information: 
(1)Editor, Trends in Neuroscience. Electronic address: aclark@cell.com.
(2)Editor, Trends in Immunology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.007 
PMID: 26442692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Oct;38(10):581-2. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.005.

Trends form follows function: new ways to inform and inspire.

Clark A(1); Trends Editorial Team.

Author information: 
(1)Trends in Neurosciences, Cell Press, 600 Technology Square 5th Floor,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. Electronic address: aclark@cell.com.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.08.005 
PMID: 26442691  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Sep;38(9):571-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.003.

Demystifying cognitive flexibility: Implications for clinical and developmental
neuroscience.

Dajani DR(1), Uddin LQ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL, USA.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Miami, Coral Gables, FL, USA;
Neuroscience Program, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL,
USA. Electronic address: l.uddin@miami.edu.

Cognitive flexibility, the readiness with which one can selectively switch
between mental processes to generate appropriate behavioral responses, develops
in a protracted manner and is compromised in several prevalent neurodevelopmental
disorders. It is unclear whether cognitive flexibility arises from neural
substrates distinct from the executive control network (ECN) or from the
interplay of nodes within this and other networks. Here we review neuroimaging
studies of cognitive flexibility, focusing on set shifting and task switching. We
propose that more consistent operationalization and study of cognitive
flexibility is required in clinical and developmental neuroscience. We suggest
that an important avenue for future research is the characterization of the
relationship between neural flexibility and cognitive flexibility in typical and 
atypical development.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.003 
PMID: 26343956  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Sep;38(9):524-34. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.008. Epub
2015 Aug 25.

The neuronal identity bias behind neocortical GABAergic plasticity.

Allene C(1), Lourenço J(1), Bacci A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Sorbonne Universités, Université Pierre et Marie Curie (UPMC Paris 6), Unité
Mixte de Recherche S 1127; Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche
Médicale (INSERM) Unité 1127; Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS)
Unité Mixte de Recherche 7225; Institut du Cerveau et de la Moelle épinière
(ICM), 75013 Paris, France. (2)Sorbonne Universités, Université Pierre et Marie
Curie (UPMC Paris 6), Unité Mixte de Recherche S 1127; Institut National de la
Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) Unité 1127; Centre National de la
Recherche Scientifique (CNRS) Unité Mixte de Recherche 7225; Institut du Cerveau 
et de la Moelle épinière (ICM), 75013 Paris, France. Electronic address:
alberto.bacci@icm-institute.org.

In the neocortex, different types of excitatory and inhibitory neurons connect to
one another following a detailed blueprint, defining functionally-distinct
subnetworks, whose activity and modulation underlie complex cognitive functions. 
We review the cell-autonomous plasticity of perisomatic inhibition onto principal
excitatory neurons. We propose that the tendency of different cortical layers to 
exhibit depression or potentiation of perisomatic inhibition is dictated by the
specific identities of principal neurons (PNs). These are mainly defined by their
projection targets and by their preference to be innervated by specific
perisomatic-targeting basket cell types. Therefore, principal neurons responsible
for relaying information to subcortical nuclei are differentially inhibited and
show specific forms of plasticity compared to other PNs that are specialized in
more associative functions.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.008 
PMID: 26318208  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Sep;38(9):535-49. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.006. Epub
2015 Aug 25.

Do stars govern our actions? Astrocyte involvement in rodent behavior.

Oliveira JF(1), Sardinha VM(2), Guerra-Gomes S(2), Araque A(3), Sousa N(2).

Author information: 
(1)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Health Sciences,
University of Minho, 4710-057 Braga, Portugal; ICVS/3B's - PT Government
Associate Laboratory, Braga/Guimarães, Portugal. Electronic address:
joaooliveira@ecsaude.uminho.pt. (2)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute
(ICVS), School of Health Sciences, University of Minho, 4710-057 Braga, Portugal;
ICVS/3B's - PT Government Associate Laboratory, Braga/Guimarães, Portugal.
(3)Department of Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455,
USA.

Astrocytes have emerged as important partners of neurons in information
processing. Important progress has been made in the past two decades in
understanding the role of astrocytes in the generation of neuron-astrocyte
network outputs resulting in behavior. We review evidence for astrocyte
involvement across four different behavioral domains: cognition, emotion, motor, 
and sensory processing. Accumulating evidence from animal models has provided a
wealth of data that largely supports a direct involvement of astrocytes on
diverse aspects of behavior. The development of tools for selectively controlling
the temporal and spatial properties of astrocyte activity will help to
consolidate our knowledge of the mechanisms underlying this involvement.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.006 
PMID: 26316036  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Sep;38(9):517-23. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.005. Epub
2015 Aug 20.

New neurons in the adult striatum: from rodents to humans.

Inta D(1), Cameron HA(2), Gass P(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, RG Animal Models in Psychiatry,
Central Institute of Mental Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim/Heidelberg
University, Heidelberg, Germany. Electronic address: Dragos.Inta@zi-mannheim.de. 
(2)Section on Neuroplasticity, National Institute of Mental Health, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA. (3)Department of Psychiatry and
Psychotherapy, RG Animal Models in Psychiatry, Central Institute of Mental
Health, Medical Faculty Mannheim/Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.

Most neurons are generated during development and are not replaced during
adulthood, even if they are lost to injury or disease. However, it is firmly
established that new neurons are generated in the dentate gyrus of the
hippocampus of almost all adult mammals, including humans. Nevertheless, many
questions remain regarding adult neurogenesis in other brain regions and
particularly in humans, where standard birth-dating methods are not generally
feasible. Exciting recent evidence indicates that calretinin-expressing
interneurons are added to the adult human striatum at a substantial rate. The
role of new neurons is unknown, but studies in rodents will be able to further
elucidate their identity and origin and then we may begin to understand their
regulation and function.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.005 
PMCID: PMC4564523
PMID: 26298770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Sep;38(9):560-70. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.004. Epub
2015 Aug 11.

Memory trace replay: the shaping of memory consolidation by neuromodulation.

Atherton LA(1), Dupret D(2), Mellor JR(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Bristol, Bristol, BS8
1TD, UK. Electronic address: LA.Atherton.2009@my.bristol.ac.uk. (2)Medical
Research Council Brain Network Dynamics Unit at the University of Oxford,
Department of Pharmacology, Oxford, OX1 3TH, UK. (3)School of Physiology and
Pharmacology, University of Bristol, Bristol, BS8 1TD, UK.

The consolidation of memories for places and events is thought to rely, at the
network level, on the replay of spatially tuned neuronal firing patterns
representing discrete places and spatial trajectories. This occurs in the
hippocampal-entorhinal circuit during sharp wave ripple events (SWRs) that occur 
during sleep or rest. Here, we review theoretical models of lingering place cell 
excitability and behaviorally induced synaptic plasticity within cell assemblies 
to explain which sequences or places are replayed. We further provide new
insights into how fluctuations in cholinergic tone during different behavioral
states might shape the direction of replay and how dopaminergic release in
response to novelty or reward can modulate which cell assemblies are replayed.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.004 
PMCID: PMC4712256
PMID: 26275935  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Sep;38(9):550-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.005. Epub 2015
Jul 24.

Orexins and fear: implications for the treatment of anxiety disorders.

Flores Á(1), Saravia R(1), Maldonado R(2), Berrendero F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuropharmacology, Department of Experimental and Health
Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, PRBB, C/Doctor Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, 
Spain. (2)Laboratory of Neuropharmacology, Department of Experimental and Health 
Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, PRBB, C/Doctor Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, 
Spain. Electronic address: rafael.maldonado@upf.edu. (3)Laboratory of
Neuropharmacology, Department of Experimental and Health Sciences, Universitat
Pompeu Fabra, PRBB, C/Doctor Aiguader 88, 08003 Barcelona, Spain. Electronic
address: fernando.berrendero@upf.edu.

An understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms involved in the regulation of 
fear is essential for the development of new treatments for anxiety disorders,
such as phobias, panic, and post-traumatic stress disorders (PTSD). Orexins, also
known as hypocretins, are neuropeptides located exclusively in hypothalamic
neurons that have extensive projections throughout the central nervous system.
Although this system was initially believed to be primarily involved in the
regulation of feeding behavior, recent studies have shown that orexins also
modulate neural circuits implicated in the expression and extinction of fear
memories. Here, we discuss recent findings involving orexins in anxiety disorders
and current clinical trials using orexin ligands that could be applied to
identify new therapies for diseases characterized by pathological fear.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.005 
PMID: 26216377  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Aug;38(8):496-505. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.004. Epub
2015 Jul 21.

The cellular and molecular landscape of neuroligins.

Bemben MA(1), Shipman SL(2), Nicoll RA(3), Roche KW(4).

Author information: 
(1)Receptor Biology Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke (NINDS), National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA;
Department of Biology, The Johns Hopkins University, 3400 North Charles Street,
Baltimore, MD, 21218, USA. (2)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, MA 02115, USA; Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. (3)Departments of Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology
and Physiology, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94158,
USA. Electronic address: roger.nicoll@ucsf.edu. (4)Receptor Biology Section,
National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. Electronic address:
rochek@mail.nih.gov.

A fundamental physical interaction exists across the synapse. It is mediated by
synaptic adhesion molecules, and is among the earliest and most indispensable of 
molecular events occurring during synaptogenesis. The regulation of adhesion
molecules and their interactions with other synaptic proteins likely affect not
only on synapse formation but also on ongoing synaptic function. We review
research on one major family of postsynaptic adhesion molecules, neuroligins,
which bind to their presynaptic partner neurexin across the synaptic cleft. We
move from a structural overview to the broad cellular and synaptic context of
neuroligins, intermolecular interactions, and molecular modifications that occur 
within a synapse. Finally, we examine evidence concerning the physiological
functions of neuroligin in a cell and highlight areas requiring further
investigation.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.004 
PMID: 26209464  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Aug;38(8):475-85. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.003. Epub
2015 Jul 22.

Origins of feature selectivities and maps in the mammalian primary visual cortex.

Vidyasagar TR(1), Eysel UT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Optometry and Vision Sciences, The University of Melbourne,
Parkville, Victoria 3010, Australia; Melbourne Neuroscience Institute, Parkville,
Victoria 3010, Australia. Electronic address: trv@unimelb.edu.au. (2)Abteilung
Neurophysiologie, Ruhr-Universität Bochum, 44780 Bochum, Germany.

A common feature of the mammalian striate cortex is the arrangement of
'orientation domains' containing neurons preferring similar stimulus
orientations. They are arranged as spokes of a pinwheel that converge at
singularities known as 'pinwheel centers'. We propose that a cortical network of 
feedforward and intracortical lateral connections elaborates a full set of
optimum orientations from geniculate inputs that show a bias to stimulus
orientation and form a set of two or a small number of 'Cartesian' coordinates.
Because each geniculate afferent carries signals only from one eye and its
receptive field (RF) is either ON or OFF center, the network constructs also
ocular dominance columns and a quasi-segregation of ON and OFF responses across
the horizontal extent of the striate cortex.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.003 
PMID: 26209463  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Aug;38(8):468-74. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.001. Epub
2015 Jul 15.

Mitochondrial synapses: intracellular communication and signal integration.

Picard M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Mitochondrial and Epigenomic Medicine, Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia and the University of Pennsylvania, PA 19104, USA. Electronic
address: mp3484@columbia.edu.

Communication is a central theme in biology. Consequently, specialized structures
have evolved to permit rapid communication among cells, tissues, organs, and
physiological systems, thus enhancing the overall function and adaptation of the 
organism. A prime example is the neuronal synapse. In the brain, synaptic
communication establishes neuronal networks with the capacity to integrate,
process, and store information, giving rise to complex output signals capable of 
orchestrating functions across the organism. At the intracellular level,
discoveries now reveal the existence of 'mitochondrial synapses' establishing
mitochondrial networks, with defined chromatin-modifying mitochondrial output
signals capable of orchestrating gene expression across the genome. These
discoveries raise the possibility that in addition to their role as powerhouses
and neuromodulators, mitochondria behave as intracellular signal-processing
networks.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.001 
PMID: 26187720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Aug;38(8):465-7. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.001. Epub 2015
Jul 14.

Noradrenaline and dopamine: sharing the Workload.

Floresco SB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Brain Research Centre, University of British
Columbia, 2136 West Mall, Vancouver, BC, V6T 1Z4, CANADA. Electronic address:
floresco@psych.ubc.ca.

Comment on
    J Neurosci. 2015 May 20;35(20):7866-77.

Varazzani and colleagues explored how noradrenergic and dopaminergic neural
activity relates to cost/benefit decisions involving effort. They show these
systems may play complementary roles in resolving these decisions; dopamine
encodes cost-discounted values of rewards, whereas noradrenergic cells modify
activity in relation to the amount of effort required to obtain them.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.07.001 
PMID: 26183088  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Aug;38(8):462-5. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.006. Epub 2015
Jul 9.

Anxious moments for the protein tyrosine phosphatase PTP1B.

Krishnan N(1), Tonks NK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York, NY, USA. (2)Cold 
Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York, NY, USA. Electronic
address: tonks@cshl.edu.

Comment on
    Neuron. 2015 Mar 18;85(6):1319-31.

Chronic stress can lead to the development of anxiety and mood disorders. Thus,
novel therapies for preventing adverse effects of stress are vitally important.
Recently, the protein tyrosine phosphatase PTP1B was identified as a novel
regulator of stress-induced anxiety. This opens up exciting opportunities to
exploit PTP1B inhibitors as anxiolytics.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.006 
PMCID: PMC4530058
PMID: 26166619  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Aug;38(8):506-16. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.002. Epub
2015 Jul 4.

Positive allosteric modulators of metabotropic glutamate 2 receptors in
schizophrenia treatment.

Ellaithy A(1), Younkin J(1), González-Maeso J(2), Logothetis DE(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, School of Medicine, Virginia
Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 23298, USA. (2)Department of Physiology and
Biophysics, School of Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA
23298, USA; Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology, and The Friedman Brain
Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA.
Electronic address: jgmaeso@vcu.edu. (3)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, 
School of Medicine, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 23298, USA.
Electronic address: delogothetis@vcu.edu.

The past two decades have witnessed a rise in the 'NMDA receptor hypofunction'
hypothesis for schizophrenia, a devastating disorder that affects around 1% of
the population worldwide. A variety of presynaptic, postsynaptic, and regulatory 
proteins involved in glutamatergic signaling have thus been proposed as potential
therapeutic targets. This review focuses on positive allosteric modulation of
metabotropic glutamate 2 receptors (mGlu2Rs) and discusses how recent preclinical
epigenetic data may provide a molecular explanation for the discrepant results of
clinical studies, further stimulating the field to exploit the promise of mGlu2R 
as a target for schizophrenia treatment.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.06.002 
PMCID: PMC4530036
PMID: 26148747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Aug;38(8):486-95. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.006. Epub
2015 Jun 24.

Attention: the claustrum.

Goll Y(1), Atlan G(2), Citri A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Institute of Life Sciences, Faculty of
Natural Sciences, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel. (2)Edmond and Lily
Safra Center for Brain Sciences, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel.
(3)Department of Biological Chemistry, Institute of Life Sciences, Faculty of
Natural Sciences, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel; Edmond and Lily Safra
Center for Brain Sciences, The Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel. Electronic
address: ami.citri@mail.huji.ac.il.

The claustrum is a mysterious thin sheet of neurons lying between the insular
cortex and the striatum. It is reciprocally connected with almost all cortical
areas, including motor, somatosensory, visual, auditory, limbic, associative, and
prefrontal cortices. In addition, it receives neuromodulatory input from
subcortical structures. A decade ago, Sir Francis Crick and Christof Koch
published an influential review proposing the claustrum as the 'seat of
consciousness', spurring a revival of interest in the claustrum. We review the
literature on the claustrum, emphasizing recent discoveries, and develop a
detailed hypothesis describing a role for the claustrum in the segregation of
attention.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.006 
PMID: 26116988  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Aug;38(8):459-61. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.009. Epub
2015 Jun 17.

The surprising temporal specificity of direct-current stimulation.

Reinhart RM(1), Woodman GF(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Center for Integrative and Cognitive Neuroscience,
Vanderbilt Vision Research Center, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37240,
USA. (2)Department of Psychology, Center for Integrative and Cognitive
Neuroscience, Vanderbilt Vision Research Center, Vanderbilt University,
Nashville, TN 37240, USA. Electronic address: geoffrey.f.woodman@vanderbilt.edu.

As studies increasingly use transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS) to
manipulate brain activity, surprising results are emerging. Specifically,
research combining tDCS with electrophysiology is showing that the long-lasting
effects of tDCS can counter-intuitively influence specific neural mechanisms
active for as little as 100 ms during the flow of human information processing.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.009 
PMCID: PMC4530037
PMID: 26093845  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):439-47. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.003. Epub
2015 Jun 20.

Regulation of dendrite morphogenesis by extrinsic cues.

Valnegri P(1), Puram SV(2), Bonni A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University in St Louis
School of Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110, USA; Department of Neurobiology, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (2)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. (3)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology,
Washington University in St Louis School of Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110, USA;
Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
Electronic address: bonni@wustl.edu.

Dendrites play a central role in the integration and flow of information in the
nervous system. The morphogenesis and maturation of dendrites is hence an
essential step in the establishment of neuronal connectivity. Recent studies have
uncovered crucial functions for extrinsic cues in the development of dendrites.
We review the contribution of secreted polypeptide growth factors,
contact-mediated proteins, and neuronal activity in distinct phases of dendrite
development. We also highlight how extrinsic cues influence local and global
intracellular mechanisms of dendrite morphogenesis. Finally, we discuss how these
studies have advanced our understanding of neuronal connectivity and have shed
light on the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.003 
PMCID: PMC4492469
PMID: 26100142  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):428-38. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.008. Epub
2015 Jun 19.

The ubiquitous nature of multivesicular release.

Rudolph S(1), Tsai MC(2), von Gersdorff H(3), Wadiche JI(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Evelyn McKnight Brain Institute, University of 
Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA. Electronic address:
stephanie_rudolph@hms.harvard.edu. (2)Department of Neurobiology and Evelyn
McKnight Brain Institute, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL
35294, USA. (3)The Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University,
Portland, OR 97239, USA. (4)Department of Neurobiology and Evelyn McKnight Brain 
Institute, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA.
Electronic address: jwadiche@uab.edu.

'Simplicity is prerequisite for reliability' (E.W. Dijkstra [1]) Presynaptic
action potentials trigger the fusion of vesicles to release neurotransmitter onto
postsynaptic neurons. Each release site was originally thought to liberate at
most one vesicle per action potential in a probabilistic fashion, rendering
synaptic transmission unreliable. However, the simultaneous release of several
vesicles, or multivesicular release (MVR), represents a simple mechanism to
overcome the intrinsic unreliability of synaptic transmission. MVR was initially 
identified at specialized synapses but is now known to be common throughout the
brain. MVR determines the temporal and spatial dispersion of transmitter,
controls the extent of receptor activation, and contributes to adapting synaptic 
strength during plasticity and neuromodulation. MVR consequently represents a
widespread mechanism that extends the dynamic range of synaptic processing.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.008 
PMCID: PMC4495900
PMID: 26100141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):448-58. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.007. Epub
2015 Jun 20.

Checks and balances on cholinergic signaling in brain and body function.

Soreq H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Brain Sciences, The Hebrew University of
Jerusalem, Edmond J. Safra Campus, Jerusalem 91904, Israel; Department of
Biological Chemistry, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Edmond J. Safra Campus,
Jerusalem 91904, Israel. Electronic address: hermona.soreq@mail.huji.ac.il.

A century after the discovery of acetylcholine (ACh), we recognize both ACh
receptors, transporters, and synthesizing and degrading enzymes and regulators of
their expression as contributors to cognition, metabolism, and immunity. Recent
discoveries indicate that pre- and post-transcriptional ACh signaling controllers
coordinate the identity, functioning, dynamics, and brain-to-body communication
of cholinergic cells. Checks and balances including epigenetic mechanisms,
alternative splicing, and miRNAs may all expand or limit the diversity of these
cholinergic components by consistently performing genome-related surveillance.
This regulatory network enables homeostatic maintenance of brain-to-body ACh
signaling as well as reactions to nicotine, Alzheimer's disease
anticholinesterase therapeutics, and agricultural pesticides. Here I review
recent reports on the functional implications of these controllers of cholinergic
signaling in and out of the brain.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.007 
PMID: 26100140  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):417-27. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.005. Epub
2015 Jun 17.

Questioning the role of sparse coding in the brain.

Spanne A(1), Jörntell H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neural Basis of Sensorimotor Control, Department of Experimental Medical
Science, Biomedical Center F10, Tornavägen 10, 221 84 Lund, Sweden. (2)Neural
Basis of Sensorimotor Control, Department of Experimental Medical Science,
Biomedical Center F10, Tornavägen 10, 221 84 Lund, Sweden. Electronic address:
henrik.jorntell@med.lu.se.

Coding principles are central to understanding the organization of brain
circuitry. Sparse coding offers several advantages, but a near-consensus has
developed that it only has beneficial properties, and these are partially unique 
to sparse coding. We find that these advantages come at the cost of several
trade-offs, with the lower capacity for generalization being especially
problematic, and the value of sparse coding as a measure and its experimental
support are both questionable. Furthermore, silent synapses and inhibitory
interneurons can permit learning speed and memory capacity that was previously
ascribed to sparse coding only. Combining these properties without exaggerated
sparse coding improves the capacity for generalization and facilitates learning
of models of a complex and high-dimensional reality.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.005 
PMID: 26093844  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):408-16. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.004. Epub
2015 Jun 15.

The dual action of estrogen hypothesis.

Cornil CA(1), Ball GF(2), Balthazart J(3).

Author information: 
(1)GIGA Neurosciences, University of Liege, Quartier Hôpital, 15 Avenue
Hippocrate, 4000 Liège, Belgium. (2)Department of Psychology, 2141 Tydings Hall, 
University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742-7201, USA. (3)GIGA Neurosciences, 
University of Liege, Quartier Hôpital, 15 Avenue Hippocrate, 4000 Liège, Belgium.
Electronic address: jbalthazart@ulg.ac.be.

Estradiol (E2) can act in the brain in a relatively fast manner (i.e., seconds to
minutes) usually through signaling initiated at the cell membrane. Brain-derived 
E2 has thus been considered as another type of neurotransmitter. Recent work
found that behaviors indicative of male sexual motivation are activated by
estrogenic metabolites of testosterone (T) in a fast manner, while sexual
performance (copulatory behavior per se) is regulated by brain E2 in a slower
manner via nucleus-initiated actions. This functional division between these two 
types of action appears to generalize to other behavioral systems regulated by
E2. We propose the dual action of estrogen hypothesis to explain this functional 
distinction between these two different modes of action.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.004 
PMCID: PMC4492881
PMID: 26089224  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):403-4. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.002. Epub 2015
Jun 2.

Toward a mechanistic understanding of interindividual differences in cognitive
changes after stress: reply to van den Bos.

Hermans EJ(1), Henckens MJ(2), Joëls M(3), Fernández G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University
Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 6525 EN, The Netherlands; Department for Cognitive
Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 6525 EN, The
Netherlands. Electronic address: erno.hermans@donders.ru.nl. (2)Donders Institute
for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 
6525 EN, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Translational Neuroscience, Brain
Center Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, 3584 CG Utrecht, The
Netherlands. (4)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud
University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 6525 EN, The Netherlands; Department for
Cognitive Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 6525 EN, The
Netherlands.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):401-2.
    Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jun;37(6):304-14.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.002 
PMID: 26043880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):401-2. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.001. Epub 2015
May 25.

Sex matters, as do individual differences….

van den Bos R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismal Animal Physiology, Radboud University Nijmegen,
Heyendaalseweg 135, NL-6525 AJ Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address:
ruudvdbos@science.ru.nl.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):403-4.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jun;37(6):304-14.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.05.001 
PMID: 26021214  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):405-7. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.008. Epub 2015
May 15.

Embracing multiple definitions of learning.

Barron AB(1), Hebets EA(2), Cleland TA(3), Fitzpatrick CL(4), Hauber ME(5),
Stevens JR(6).

Author information: 
(1)Macquarie University, Department of Biological Sciences, North Ryde, NSW 2109,
Australia. (2)School of Biological Sciences, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, NE
68588, USA. (3)Department of Psychology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853,
USA. (4)National Evolutionary Synthesis Center, Durham, NC, 27708, USA.
(5)Department of Psychology, Hunter College and the Graduate Center, City
University of New York, NY 10065, USA. Electronic address:
mhauber@hunter.cuny.edu. (6)Department of Psychology, University of
Nebraska-Lincoln, NE 68588, USA; Center for Brain, Biology and Behavior,
University of Nebraska-Lincoln, NE 68588, USA.

Definitions of learning vary widely across disciplines, driven largely by
different approaches used to assess its occurrence. These definitions can be
better reconciled with each other if each is recognized as coherent with a common
conceptualization of learning, while appreciating the practical utility of
different learning definitions in different contexts.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.008 
PMID: 25987443  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jun;38(6):333-5. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.009. Epub 2015
May 22.

Filtering the muddied waters of brain edema.

Thrane AS(1), Rangroo Thrane V(2), Plog BA(3), Nedergaard M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Glial Disease and Therapeutics, Center for Translational
Neuromedicine, Department of Neurosurgery, University of Rochester Medical
Center, Rochester, NY 14642, USA; Department of Ophthalmology, Haukeland
University Hospital, Bergen 5021, Norway; Letten Centre, Institute of Basic
Medical Sciences, Department of Physiology, University of Oslo, 0317 Oslo,
Norway. (2)Division of Glial Disease and Therapeutics, Center for Translational
Neuromedicine, Department of Neurosurgery, University of Rochester Medical
Center, Rochester, NY 14642, USA; Department of Ophthalmology, Haukeland
University Hospital, Bergen 5021, Norway; Letten Centre, Institute of Basic
Medical Sciences, Department of Physiology, University of Oslo, 0317 Oslo,
Norway. Electronic address: vrangroo@gmail.com. (3)Division of Glial Disease and 
Therapeutics, Center for Translational Neuromedicine, Department of Neurosurgery,
University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY 14642, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.009 
PMID: 26008121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jun;38(6):336-44. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.007. Epub
2015 May 15.

Reconsolidation and the regulation of plasticity: moving beyond memory.

Bonin RP(1), De Koninck Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institut Universitaire en Santé Mentale de Québec, Québec, Canada. Electronic 
address: robert.bonin@crulrg.ulaval.ca. (2)Institut Universitaire en Santé
Mentale de Québec, Québec, Canada; Department of Psychiatry and Neuroscience,
Université Laval, Québec, Canada.

Memory reconsolidation is a protein synthesis-dependent process that preserves,
in some form, memories that have been destabilized through recall.
Reconsolidation is a nearly universal phenomenon, occurring in a diverse array of
species and learning tasks. The function of reconsolidation remains unclear but
it has been proposed as a mechanism for updating or strengthening memories.
Observations of an analog of reconsolidation in vitro and in sensory systems
indicate that reconsolidation is unlikely to be a learning-specific phenomenon
and may serve a broader function. We propose that reconsolidation arises from the
activity-dependent induction of two coincident but opposing processes: the
depotentiation and repotentiation of strengthened synapses. These processes
suggest that reconsolidation reflects a fundamental mechanism that regulates and 
preserves synaptic strength.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.007 
PMID: 25987442  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jun;38(6):331-2. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.006. Epub 2015
May 13.

Muddying the water in brain edema?

Smith AJ(1), Jin BJ(1), Verkman AS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Medicine and Physiology, University of California, San
Francisco, USA. (2)Departments of Medicine and Physiology, University of
California, San Francisco, USA. Electronic address: Alan.Verkman@ucsf.edu.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2014 Nov;37(11):620-8.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.006 
PMCID: PMC4739497
PMID: 25980601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jun;38(6):364-74. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.003. Epub
2015 May 11.

Glial fibrillary acidic protein: from intermediate filament assembly and gliosis 
to neurobiomarker.

Yang Z(1), Wang KK(2).

Author information: 
(1)Program for Neurotrauma, Neuroproteomics, and Biomarkers Research, Departments
of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, McKnight Brain Institute, L4-100, University of
Florida, 1149 South Newell Drive, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA. (2)Program for
Neurotrauma, Neuroproteomics, and Biomarkers Research, Departments of Psychiatry 
and Neuroscience, McKnight Brain Institute, L4-100, University of Florida, 1149
South Newell Drive, Gainesville, FL 32611, USA. Electronic address:
kawangwang17@gmail.com.

Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) is an intermediate filament (IF) III
protein uniquely found in astrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS),
non-myelinating Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system (PNS), and enteric
glial cells. GFAP mRNA expression is regulated by several nuclear-receptor
hormones, growth factors, and lipopolysaccharides (LPSs). GFAP is also subject to
numerous post-translational modifications (PTMs), while GFAP mutations result in 
protein deposits known as Rosenthal fibers in Alexander disease. GFAP gene
activation and protein induction appear to play a critical role in astroglial
cell activation (astrogliosis) following CNS injuries and neurodegeneration.
Emerging evidence also suggests that, following traumatic brain and spinal cord
injuries and stroke, GFAP and its breakdown products are rapidly released into
biofluids, making them strong candidate biomarkers for such neurological
disorders.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.003 
PMCID: PMC4559283
PMID: 25975510  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jun;38(6):375-86. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.005. Epub
2015 May 9.

Cre-driven optogenetics in the heterogeneous genetic panorama of the VTA.

Pupe S(1), Wallén-Mackenzie Å(2).

Author information: 
(1)Uppsala University, Department of Neuroscience, Unit of Functional
Neurobiology, Husargatan 3, Box 593, S-751 24 Uppsala, Sweden; Uppsala
University, Department of Comparative Physiology, Norbyvägen 18A, S-752 36
Uppsala, Sweden; Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Brain Institute, Av
Nascimento de Castro 2155, 59056-450 Natal, Brazil. (2)Uppsala University,
Department of Neuroscience, Unit of Functional Neurobiology, Husargatan 3, Box
593, S-751 24 Uppsala, Sweden; Uppsala University, Department of Comparative
Physiology, Norbyvägen 18A, S-752 36 Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address:
asa.mackenzie@neuro.uu.se.

The selectivity of optogenetics commonly relies on genetic promoters to
manipulate specific populations of neurons through the use of Cre-driver lines.
All studies performed in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) so far have utilized
promoters present in groups of cells that release dopamine (DA), GABA, or
glutamate. However, neurons that co-release neurotransmitters and variabilities
within groups of neurons that release the same neurotransmitter present
challenges when evaluating the results. Further complexity is introduced by
ectopic expression patterns often occurring in transgenic Cre-drivers. New
perspectives could be unfolded by identifying and selecting different types of
promoter for driving the Cre recombinase. Here, we discuss some promising
candidates and highlight the advantages or disadvantages of different methods for
creating novel transgenic lines.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.005 
PMID: 25962754  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jun;38(6):345-52. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.002. Epub
2015 May 7.

NOW vs LATER brain circuits: implications for obesity and addiction.

Volkow ND(1), Baler RD(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute on Drug Abuse, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 
20892, USA. Electronic address: nvolkow@nida.nih.gov. (2)National Institute on
Drug Abuse, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Balancing behaviors that provide a reward NOW versus behaviors that provide an
advantage LATER is critical for survival. We propose a model in which dopamine
(DA) can favor NOW processes through phasic signaling in reward circuits or LATER
processes through tonic signaling in control circuits. At the same time, through 
its modulation of the orbitofrontal cortex, which processes salience attribution,
DA also enables shifting from NOW to LATER, while its modulation of the insula,
which processes interoceptive information, influences the probability of
selecting NOW vs LATER actions on the basis of an individual's physiological
state. Disruptions along these circuits contribute to diverse pathologies,
including obesity and addiction.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.002 
PMID: 25959611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jun;38(6):387-99. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.004. Epub
2015 May 5.

The adaptive human parental brain: implications for children's social
development.

Feldman R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gonda Multidisciplinary Brain Center, Bar Ilan University, Ramat-Gan, Israel; 
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CO, USA. Electronic address:
feldman.ruth@gmail.com.

Although interest in the neurobiology of parent-infant bonding is a century old, 
neuroimaging of the human parental brain is recent. After summarizing current
comparative research into the neurobiology of parenting, here I chart a global
'parental caregiving' network that integrates conserved structures supporting
mammalian caregiving with later-evolving networks and implicates parenting in the
evolution of higher order social functions aimed at maximizing infant survival.
The response of the parental brain to bonding-related behavior and hormones,
particularly oxytocin, and increased postpartum brain plasticity demonstrate
adaptation to infant stimuli, childrearing experiences, and cultural contexts.
Mechanisms of biobehavioral synchrony by which the parental brain shapes, and is 
shaped by, infant physiology and behavior emphasize the brain basis of caregiving
for the cross-generation transmission of human sociality.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.004 
PMID: 25956962  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jun;38(6):353-63. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.001. Epub
2015 May 1.

Congenital cardiac anomalies and white matter injury.

Morton PD(1), Ishibashi N(1), Jonas RA(1), Gallo V(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience Research and Children's National Heart Institute,
Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC 20010, USA. (2)Center for
Neuroscience Research and Children's National Heart Institute, Children's
National Medical Center, Washington, DC 20010, USA. Electronic address:
vgallo@cnmc.org.

Cardiac abnormalities are the most common birth defects. Derangement of
circulatory flow affects many vital organs; without proper supply of oxygenated
blood, the brain is particularly vulnerable. Although surgical interventions have
greatly reduced mortality rates, patients often suffer an array of neurological
deficits throughout life. Neuroimaging provides a macroscopic assessment of brain
injury and has shown that white matter (WM) is at risk. Oligodendrocytes and
myelinated axons have been identified as major targets of WM injury, but still
little is known about how congenital heart anomalies affect the brain at the
cellular level. Further integration of animal model studies and clinical research
will define novel therapeutic targets and new standards of care to prevent
developmental delay associated with cardiac abnormalities.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.04.001 
PMCID: PMC4461528
PMID: 25939892  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Trends Neurosci. 2015 May;38(5):279-94. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.03.003. Epub
2015 Apr 14.

An excitatory synapse hypothesis of depression.

Thompson SM(1), Kallarackal AJ(2), Kvarta MD(3), Van Dyke AM(2), LeGates TA(4),
Cai X(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 655 West 
Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA; Department of Psychiatry, University 
of Maryland School of Medicine, 655 West Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD 21201,
USA; Programs in Neuroscience and Membrane Biology, University of Maryland School
of Medicine, 655 West Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. Electronic
address: sthom003@umaryland.edu. (2)Department of Physiology, University of
Maryland School of Medicine, 655 West Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA;
Programs in Neuroscience and Membrane Biology, University of Maryland School of
Medicine, 655 West Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. (3)Department of
Physiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 655 West Baltimore Street,
Baltimore, MD 21201, USA; Programs in Neuroscience and Membrane Biology,
University of Maryland School of Medicine, 655 West Baltimore Street, Baltimore, 
MD 21201, USA; Medical Scientist Training Program, University of Maryland School 
of Medicine, 655 West Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. (4)Department
of Physiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 655 West Baltimore
Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. (5)Department of Physiology, University of
Maryland School of Medicine, 655 West Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA;
Department of Physiology, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, IL 62901,
USA.

Depression is a common cause of mortality and morbidity, but the biological bases
of the deficits in emotional and cognitive processing remain incompletely
understood. Current antidepressant therapies are effective in only some patients 
and act slowly. Here, we propose an excitatory synapse hypothesis of depression
in which chronic stress and genetic susceptibility cause changes in the strength 
of subsets of glutamatergic synapses at multiple locations, including the
prefrontal cortex (PFC), hippocampus, and nucleus accumbens (NAc), leading to a
dysfunction of corticomesolimbic reward circuitry that underlies many of the
symptoms of depression. This hypothesis accounts for current depression
treatments and suggests an updated framework for the development of better
therapeutic compounds.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.03.003 
PMCID: PMC4417609
PMID: 25887240  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Trends Neurosci. 2015 May;38(5):259-61. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.03.005. Epub
2015 Apr 10.

Motor cortex layer 4: less is more.

Barbas H(1), García-Cabezas MÁ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Boston University, Neural Systems Lab, 635 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, MA
02215, USA. Electronic address: barbas@bu.edu. (2)Boston University, Neural
Systems Lab, 635 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, MA 02215, USA.

The stratified motor cortex is variously thought to either lack or contain layer 
4. Yamawaki et al. described a functional layer 4 in mouse motor cortex with
properties and connections similar to layer 4 in sensory areas. Their results
bolster a theoretical framework suggesting all primary cortical areas are
equivalent.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.03.005 
PMCID: PMC4500633
PMID: 25868984  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Trends Neurosci. 2015 May;38(5):319-29. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.03.002. Epub
2015 Apr 4.

Extending the amygdala in theories of threat processing.

Fox AS(1), Oler JA(2), Tromp do PM(2), Fudge JL(3), Kalin NH(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA;
HealthEmotions Research Institute, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA; Lane Neuroimaging Laboratory, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, 
USA; Waisman Laboratory for Brain Imaging and Behavior, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA; Center for Investigating Healthy Minds at
the Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. Electronic
address: asfox@wisc.edu. (2)Department of Psychiatry, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA; HealthEmotions Research Institute,
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA; Lane Neuroimaging Laboratory, 
University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA. (3)Department of Neurobiology 
and Anatomy, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, USA;
Department of Psychiatry, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY, 
USA. (4)Department of Psychiatry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI,
USA; HealthEmotions Research Institute, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
WI, USA; Lane Neuroimaging Laboratory, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
WI, USA; Waisman Laboratory for Brain Imaging and Behavior, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA; Center for Investigating Healthy Minds at
the Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA; Department
of Psychology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, USA.

The central extended amygdala is an evolutionarily conserved set of
interconnected brain regions that play an important role in threat processing to 
promote survival. Two core components of the central extended amygdala, the
central nucleus of the amygdala (Ce) and the lateral bed nucleus of the stria
terminalis (BST) are highly similar regions that serve complimentary roles by
integrating fear- and anxiety-relevant information. Survival depends on the
ability of the central extended amygdala to rapidly integrate and respond to
threats that vary in their immediacy, proximity, and characteristics. Future
studies will benefit from understanding alterations in central extended amygdala 
function in relation to stress-related psychopathology.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.03.002 
PMCID: PMC4417372
PMID: 25851307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Trends Neurosci. 2015 May;38(5):295-306. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.03.001. Epub
2015 Apr 3.

The primate amygdala in social perception - insights from electrophysiological
recordings and stimulation.

Rutishauser U(1), Mamelak AN(2), Adolphs R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA;
Department of Neurology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA;
Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, California Institute of
Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA; Department of Biomedical Sciences, Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Electronic address:
ueli.rutishauser@cshs.org. (2)Department of Neurosurgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical
Center, Los Angeles, CA, USA. (3)Division of Biology and Biological Engineering, 
California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA.

The role of the amygdala in emotion and social perception has been intensively
investigated primarily through studies using functional magnetic resonance
imaging (fMRI). Recently, this topic has been examined using single-unit
recordings in both humans and monkeys, with a focus on face processing. The
findings provide novel insights, including several surprises: amygdala neurons
have very long response latencies, show highly nonlinear responses to whole
faces, and can be exquisitely selective for very specific parts of faces such as 
the eyes. In humans, the responses of amygdala neurons correlate with internal
states evoked by faces, rather than with their objective features. Current and
future studies extend the investigations to psychiatric illnesses such as autism,
in which atypical face processing is a hallmark of social dysfunction.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.03.001 
PMCID: PMC4417366
PMID: 25847686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Trends Neurosci. 2015 May;38(5):261-3. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.03.004. Epub 2015
Apr 2.

Idiosyncratic connectivity in autism: developmental and anatomical
considerations.

Uddin LQ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Miami, PO Box 248185-0751, Coral
Gables, FL 33124, USA; Neuroscience Program, University of Miami Miller School of
Medicine, Miami, FL, USA. Electronic address: l.uddin@miami.edu.

Hahamy and colleagues demonstrate individualized alterations of functional
connectivity in the brains of adults with autism, suggesting that previous
characterizations of general under- or over-connectivity may be overly
simplistic. Adopting a developmental perspective spanning both cortical and
subcortical landscapes will further clarify the nature and extent of these
atypicalities.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.03.004 
PMCID: PMC4506749
PMID: 25841798  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Trends Neurosci. 2015 May;38(5):264-72. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.007. Epub
2015 Apr 2.

Contralateral targeting of the corpus callosum in normal and pathological brain
function.

Fenlon LR(1), Richards LJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland Brisbane, QLD 4072,
Australia. (2)Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland Brisbane, 
QLD 4072, Australia; The School of Biomedical Sciences, The University of
Queensland Brisbane, QLD 4072, Australia. Electronic address: richards@uq.edu.au.

The corpus callosum connects the two cortical hemispheres of the mammalian brain 
and is susceptible to structural defects during development, which often result
in significant neuropsychological dysfunction. To date, such individuals have
been studied primarily with regards to the integrity of the callosal tract at the
midline. However, the mechanisms regulating the contralateral targeting of the
corpus callosum, after midline crossing has occurred, are less well understood.
Recent evidence suggests that defects in contralateral targeting can occur in
isolation from midline-tract malformations, and may have significant functional
implications. We propose that contralateral targeting is a crucially important
and relatively under-investigated event in callosal development, and that defects
in this process may constitute an undiagnosed phenotype in several neurological
disorders.

Crown Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.007 
PMID: 25841797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Trends Neurosci. 2015 May;38(5):273-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.008. Epub 2015
Mar 21.

Emerging from the bottleneck: benefits of the comparative approach to modern
neuroscience.

Brenowitz EA(1), Zakon HH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Psychology and Biology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA
98195, USA. Electronic address: eliotb@uw.edu. (2)Departments of Neuroscience and
Integrative Biology, University of Texas, Austin, TX 78712, USA.

Neuroscience has historically exploited a wide diversity of animal taxa.
Recently, however, research has focused increasingly on a few model species. This
trend has accelerated with the genetic revolution, as genomic sequences and
genetic tools became available for a few species, which formed a bottleneck. This
coalescence on a small set of model species comes with several costs that are
often not considered, especially in the current drive to use mice explicitly as
models for human diseases. Comparative studies of strategically chosen non-model 
species can complement model species research and yield more rigorous studies. As
genetic sequences and tools become available for many more species, we are poised
to emerge from the bottleneck and once again exploit the rich biological
diversity offered by comparative studies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.008 
PMCID: PMC4417368
PMID: 25800324  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Trends Neurosci. 2015 May;38(5):307-18. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.004. Epub
2015 Mar 9.

Towards the automatic classification of neurons.

Armañanzas R(1), Ascoli GA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Krasnow Institute for Advanced Study, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
22030, USA. (2)Krasnow Institute for Advanced Study, George Mason University,
Fairfax, VA 22030, USA. Electronic address: ascoli@gmu.edu.

The classification of neurons into types has been much debated since the
inception of modern neuroscience. Recent experimental advances are accelerating
the pace of data collection. The resulting growth of information about
morphological, physiological, and molecular properties encourages efforts to
automate neuronal classification by powerful machine learning techniques. We
review state-of-the-art analysis approaches and the availability of suitable data
and resources, highlighting prominent challenges and opportunities. The effective
solution of the neuronal classification problem will require continuous
development of computational methods, high-throughput data production, and
systematic metadata organization to enable cross-laboratory integration.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.004 
PMCID: PMC4417416
PMID: 25765323  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Apr;38(4):207-16. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.005.

Space reconstruction by primary visual cortex activity: a parallel,
non-computational mechanism of object representation.

Gur M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Technion, Israel Institute of
Technology, Haifa, Israel. Electronic address: mogi@bm.technion.ac.il.

The current view posits that objects, despite changes in appearance, are uniquely
encoded by 'expert' cells. This view is untenable. First, even if cell ensemble
responses are invariant and unique, we are consciously aware of all of the
objects' details. Second, in addition to detail preservation, data show that the 
current hypothesis fails to account for uniqueness and invariance. I present an
alternative view whereby objects' representation and recognition are based on
parallel representation of space by primary visual cortex (V1) responses.
Information necessary for invariance and other attributes is handled in series by
other cortical areas through integration, interpolation, and hierarchical
convergence. The parallel and serial mechanisms combine to enable our flexible
space perception. Only in this alternative view is conscious perception
consistent with the underlying architecture.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.005 
PMID: 25839087  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Apr;38(4):247-58. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.002. Epub
2015 Mar 10.

Acting without seeing: eye movements reveal visual processing without awareness.

Spering M(1), Carrasco M(2).

Author information: 
(1)University of British Columbia, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences and Centre for Brain Health, 818 W10th Avenue, Vancouver, BC V5Z 1M9,
Canada. Electronic address: miriam.spering@ubc.ca. (2)New York University,
Department of Psychology and Center for Neural Science, 6 Washington Place, New
York, NY 10003, USA. Electronic address: marisa.carrasco@nyu.edu.

Visual perception and eye movements are considered to be tightly linked. Diverse 
fields, ranging from developmental psychology to computer science, utilize eye
tracking to measure visual perception. However, this prevailing view has been
challenged by recent behavioral studies. Here, we review converging evidence
revealing dissociations between the contents of perceptual awareness and
different types of eye movement. Such dissociations reveal situations in which
eye movements are sensitive to particular visual features that fail to modulate
perceptual reports. We also discuss neurophysiological, neuroimaging, and
clinical studies supporting the role of subcortical pathways for visual
processing without awareness. Our review links awareness to perceptual-eye
movement dissociations and furthers our understanding of the brain pathways
underlying vision and movement with and without awareness.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.002 
PMCID: PMC4385403
PMID: 25765322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Apr;38(4):226-36. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.003. Epub
2015 Mar 9.

RNA-binding proteins in neurodegeneration: Seq and you shall receive.

Nussbacher JK(1), Batra R(1), Lagier-Tourenne C(2), Yeo GW(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecule Medicine, Institute for Genomic Medicine, 
UCSD Stem Cell Program, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla,
CA, USA; Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, University of California, San
Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA. Electronic address: clagiert@ucsd.edu. (3)Department of
Cellular and Molecule Medicine, Institute for Genomic Medicine, UCSD Stem Cell
Program, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA; Department of
Physiology, National University of Singapore, Singapore. Electronic address:
geneyeo@ucsd.edu.

As critical players in gene regulation, RNA binding proteins (RBPs) are taking
center stage in our understanding of cellular function and disease. In our era of
bench-top sequencers and unprecedented computational power, biological questions 
can be addressed in a systematic, genome-wide manner. Development of
high-throughput sequencing (Seq) methodologies provides unparalleled potential to
discover new mechanisms of disease-associated perturbations of RNA homeostasis.
Complementary to candidate single-gene studies, these innovative technologies may
elicit the discovery of unexpected mechanisms, and enable us to determine the
widespread influence of the multifunctional RBPs on their targets. Given that the
disruption of RNA processing is increasingly implicated in neurological diseases,
these approaches will continue to provide insights into the roles of RBPs in
disease pathogenesis.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.003 
PMCID: PMC4403644
PMID: 25765321  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Apr;38(4):192-4. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.006. Epub 2015
Mar 10.

Oscillatory mechanisms of feedforward and feedback visual processing.

Jensen O(1), Bonnefond M(2), Marshall TR(2), Tiesinga P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University
Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands; Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences -
Center for Neuroscience, University of Amsterdam, Science Park 904, Amsterdam, XH
1098 The Netherlands. Electronic address: ole.jensen@donders.ru.nl. (2)Donders
Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University Nijmegen,
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Two recent monkey studies demonstrate that feedforward processing in the visual
system is reflected by activity in the 40-90Hz gamma band, whereas feedback is
reflected by activity in the 5-18Hz alpha and beta band. These findings can be
applied to interpret human electrophysiological activity in complex visual tasks.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.006 
PMID: 25765320  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Apr;38(4):237-46. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.001. Epub
2015 Mar 9.

Epigenetic mechanisms of chronic pain.

Descalzi G(1), Ikegami D(2), Ushijima T(3), Nestler EJ(1), Zachariou V(4), Narita
M(5).

Author information: 
(1)Fishberg Department of Neuroscience, Friedman Brain Institute, Icahn School of
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA. (2)Department of Pharmacology, 
Hoshi University School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2-4-41 Ebara,
Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 142-8501, Japan. (3)Division of Epigenomics, National Cancer 
Center Research Institute, 5-1-1, Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, 104-0045, Japan; Life 
Science Tokyo Advanced Research Center (L-StaR), 2-4-41 Ebara, Shinagawa-ku,
Tokyo 142-8501, Japan. (4)Fishberg Department of Neuroscience, Friedman Brain
Institute, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA.
Electronic address: venetia.zachariou@mssm.edu. (5)Department of Pharmacology,
Hoshi University School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, 2-4-41 Ebara,
Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 142-8501, Japan; Life Science Tokyo Advanced Research Center 
(L-StaR), 2-4-41 Ebara, Shinagawa-ku, Tokyo 142-8501, Japan. Electronic address: 
narita@hoshi.ac.jp.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci. 2015 Sep;38(9):579.

Neuropathic and inflammatory pain promote a large number of persisting
adaptations at the cellular and molecular level, allowing even transient tissue
or nerve damage to elicit changes in cells that contribute to the development of 
chronic pain and associated symptoms. There is evidence that injury-induced
changes in chromatin structure drive stable changes in gene expression and neural
function, which may cause several symptoms, including allodynia, hyperalgesia,
anxiety, and depression. Recent findings on epigenetic changes in the spinal cord
and brain during chronic pain may guide fundamental advances in new treatments.
Here, we provide a brief overview of epigenetic regulation in the nervous system 
and then discuss the still-limited literature that directly implicates epigenetic
modifications in chronic pain syndromes.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.02.001 
PMCID: PMC4459752
PMID: 25765319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Apr;38(4):195-206. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.01.005. Epub
2015 Feb 16.

The unsteady eye: an information-processing stage, not a bug.

Rucci M(1), Victor JD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Boston University, Boston, MA 
02215, USA; Graduate Program in Neuroscience, Boston University, Boston, MA
02215, USA. Electronic address: mrucci@bu.edu. (2)Brain and Mind Research
Institute, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY 10065, USA.

How is space represented in the visual system? At first glance, the answer to
this fundamental question appears straightforward: spatial information is
directly encoded in the locations of neurons within maps. This concept has long
dominated visual neuroscience, leading to mainstream theories of how neurons
encode information. However, an accumulation of evidence indicates that this
purely spatial view is incomplete and that, even for static images, the
representation is fundamentally spatiotemporal. The evidence for this new
understanding centers on recent experimental findings concerning the functional
role of fixational eye movements, the tiny movements humans and other species
continually perform, even when attending to a single point. We review some of
these findings and discuss their functional implications.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.01.005 
PMCID: PMC4385455
PMID: 25698649  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Apr;38(4):189-91. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.01.004. Epub
2015 Feb 2.

Taxon matters: promoting integrative studies of social behavior: NESCent Working 
Group on Integrative Models of Vertebrate Sociality: Evolution, Mechanisms, and
Emergent Properties.

Taborsky M(1), Hofmann HA(2), Beery AK(3), Blumstein DT(4), Hayes LD(5), Lacey
EA(6), Martins EP(7), Phelps SM(2), Solomon NG(8), Rubenstein DR(9).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Division of Behavioural Ecology,
University of Bern, Wohlenstrasse 50a, 3032 Hinterkappelen, Switzerland.
Electronic address: michael.taborsky@iee.unibe.ch. (2)Department of Integrative
Biology, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA. (3)Department of
Psychology and Program in Neuroscience, Smith College, Northampton, MA, USA.
(4)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, 621 
Young Drive South, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1606, USA. (5)Department of Biological
and Environmental Sciences, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, Chattanooga, 
TN, USA. (6)Museum of Vertebrate Zoology and Department of Integrative Biology,
University of California at Berkeley, 3101 Valley Life Sciences Building,
Berkeley, CA 94720-3160, USA. (7)Department of Biology, Indiana University,
Bloomington IN 47405, USA. (8)Department of Biology, Miami University, Oxford, OH
45056, USA. (9)Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology,
Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.

The neural and molecular mechanisms underlying social behavior - including their 
functional significance and evolution - can only be fully understood using data
obtained under multiple social, environmental, and physiological conditions.
Understanding the complexity of social behavior requires integration across
levels of analysis in both laboratory and field settings. However, there is
currently a disconnect between the systems studied in the laboratory versus the
field. We argue that recent conceptual and technical advances provide exciting
new opportunities to close this gap by making non-model organisms accessible to
modern approaches in both laboratory and nature.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.01.004 
PMID: 25656466  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Apr;38(4):217-25. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.01.002. Epub
2015 Jan 29.

Understanding opioid reward.

Fields HL(1), Margolis EB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The Wheeler Center for the Neurobiology of Addiction,
Alcoholism and Addiction Research Group, University of California, San Francisco,
CA, USA. Electronic address: howard.fields@ucsf.edu. (2)Department of Neurology, 
The Wheeler Center for the Neurobiology of Addiction, Alcoholism and Addiction
Research Group, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Opioids are the most potent analgesics in clinical use; however, their powerful
rewarding properties can lead to addiction. The scientific challenge is to retain
analgesic potency while limiting the development of tolerance, dependence, and
addiction. Both rewarding and analgesic actions of opioids depend upon actions at
the mu opioid (MOP) receptor. Systemic opioid reward requires MOP receptor
function in the midbrain ventral tegmental area (VTA) which contains dopaminergic
neurons. VTA dopaminergic neurons are implicated in various aspects of reward
including reward prediction error, working memory, and incentive salience. It is 
now clear that subsets of VTA neurons have different pharmacological properties
and participate in separate circuits. The degree to which MOP receptor agonists
act on different VTA circuits depends upon the behavioral state of the animal,
which can be altered by manipulations such as food deprivation or prior exposure 
to MOP receptor agonists.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.01.002 
PMCID: PMC4385443
PMID: 25637939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Mar;38(3):178-88. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.009. Epub
2015 Jan 29.

Impaired intracellular trafficking defines early Parkinson's disease.

Hunn BH(1), Cragg SJ(1), Bolam JP(2), Spillantini MG(3), Wade-Martins R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Oxford Parkinson's Disease Centre, University of Oxford, South Parks Road,
Oxford OX1 3QX, UK; Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, University of
Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QX, UK. (2)Oxford Parkinson's Disease
Centre, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QX, UK; Medical
Research Council Anatomical Neuropharmacology Unit, Department of Pharmacology,
University of Oxford, Mansfield Road, Oxford OX1 3QT, UK. (3)Department of
Clinical Neurosciences, University of Cambridge, The Clifford Allbutt Building,
Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 0QH, UK. (4)Oxford Parkinson's Disease Centre,
University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QX, UK; Department of
Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford 
OX1 3QX, UK. Electronic address: richard.wade-martins@dpag.ox.ac.uk.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is an insidious and incurable neurodegenerative disease,
and represents a significant cost to individuals, carers, and ageing societies.
It is defined at post-mortem by the loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia
nigra together with the presence of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites. We examine
here the role of α-synuclein and other cellular transport proteins implicated in 
PD and how their aberrant activity may be compounded by the unique anatomy of the
dopaminergic neuron. This review uses multiple lines of evidence from genetic
studies, human tissue, induced pluripotent stem cells, and refined animal models 
to argue that prodromal PD can be defined as a disease of impaired intracellular 
trafficking. Dysfunction of the dopaminergic synapse heralds trafficking
impairment.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.009 
PMCID: PMC4740565
PMID: 25639775  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Mar;38(3):127-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.01.003. Epub 2015
Jan 23.

Motor aging results from cerebellar neuron death.

Boisgontier MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Movement Control and Neuroplasticity Research Group, Department of
Kinesiology, Biomedical Sciences Group, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium. Electronic
address: matthieu.boisgontier@faber.kuleuven.be.

As we age, movements become slower and inconsistent and require more attention.
These hallmarks of aging suggest a switch from predictive to reactive motor
control. Here I examine evidence supporting the hypothesis that motor aging is
primarily determined by the early death of neurons in the cerebellum, a critical 
structure for predictive motor control.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.01.003 
PMID: 25623752  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Mar;38(3):139-44. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.004. Epub
2015 Jan 12.

Manipulating cell fate in the cochlea: a feasible therapy for hearing loss.

Fujioka M(1), Okano H(2), Edge AS(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (2)Department of Physiology, Keio University
School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. (3)Eaton-Peabody Laboratory, Department of
Otolaryngology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Boston, MA, USA; Department 
of Otology and Laryngology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic
address: albert_edge@meei.harvard.edu.

Mammalian auditory hair cells do not spontaneously regenerate, unlike hair cells 
in lower vertebrates, including fish and birds. In mammals, hearing loss due to
the loss of hair cells is permanent and intractable. Recent studies in the mouse 
have demonstrated spontaneous hair cell regeneration during a short postnatal
period, but this regenerative capacity is lost in the adult cochlea. Reduced
regeneration coincides with a transition that results in a decreased pool of
progenitor cells in the cochlear sensory epithelium. Here, we review the
signaling cascades involved in hair cell formation and morphogenesis of the organ
of Corti in developing mammals, the changing status of progenitor cells in the
cochlea, and the regeneration of auditory hair cells in adult mammals.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.004 
PMCID: PMC4352405
PMID: 25593106  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Mar;38(3):158-66. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.007. Epub
2015 Jan 9.

Amygdala-prefrontal interactions in (mal)adaptive learning.

Likhtik E(1), Paz R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Associate Research Scientist, Department of Psychiatry, 1051 Riverside Drive, 
Unit 87, Kolb Annex, Room 136, New York, NY 10032, USA. Electronic address:
ebl2102@columbia.edu. (2)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of
Science, Rehovot, 76100 Israel. Electronic address: rony.paz@weizmann.ac.il.

The study of neurobiological mechanisms underlying anxiety disorders has been
shaped by learning models that frame anxiety as maladaptive learning. Pavlovian
conditioning and extinction are particularly influential in defining learning
stages that can account for symptoms of anxiety disorders. Recently, dynamic and 
task related communication between the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) 
and the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) has emerged as a crucial aspect of
successful evaluation of threat and safety. Ongoing patterns of neural signaling 
within the mPFC-BLA circuit during encoding, expression and extinction of
adaptive learning are reviewed. The mechanisms whereby deficient mPFC-BLA
interactions can lead to generalized fear and anxiety are discussed in learned
and innate anxiety. Findings with cross-species validity are emphasized.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.007 
PMCID: PMC4352381
PMID: 25583269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Mar;38(3):145-57. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.006. Epub
2015 Jan 8.

The role of inflammatory cytokines as key modulators of neurogenesis.

Borsini A(1), Zunszain PA(1), Thuret S(2), Pariante CM(3).

Author information: 
(1)Section of Stress, Psychiatry and Immunology & Perinatal Psychiatry, King's
College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, Department 
of Psychological Medicine, London, UK. (2)Centre for the Cellular Basis of
Behaviour, King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and
Neuroscience, Department of Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, London, UK.
(3)Section of Stress, Psychiatry and Immunology & Perinatal Psychiatry, King's
College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, Department 
of Psychological Medicine, London, UK. Electronic address:
carmine.pariante@kcl.ac.uk.

Neurogenesis is an important process in the regulation of brain function and
behaviour, highly active in early development and continuing throughout life.
Recent studies have shown that neurogenesis is modulated by inflammatory
cytokines in response to an activated immune system. To disentangle the effects
of the different cytokines on neurogenesis, here we summarise and discuss in
vitro studies on individual cytokines. We show that inflammatory cytokines have
both a positive and negative role on proliferation and neuronal differentiation. 
Hence, this strengthens the notion that inflammation is involved in molecular and
cellular mechanisms associated with complex cognitive processes and, therefore,
that alterations in brain-immune communication are relevant to the development of
neuropsychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.006 
PMID: 25579391  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Mar;38(3):167-77. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.008. Epub
2015 Jan 7.

The human histaminergic system in neuropsychiatric disorders.

Shan L(1), Bao AM(2), Swaab DF(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou
310058, China; Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, an Institute of the Royal 
Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, Amsterdam 1105 BA, The Netherlands;
Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, University of California at 
Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA; Neurobiology Research, Veterans
Administration Greater Los Angeles Health Care System, 16111 Plummer Street,
North Hills, CA 91343, USA. (2)Department of Neurobiology, Zhejiang University
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310058, China. Electronic address:
baoaimin@zju.edu.cn. (3)Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, an Institute of
the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, Amsterdam 1105 BA, The
Netherlands.

Histaminergic neurons are exclusively located in the hypothalamic tuberomamillary
nucleus, from where they project to many brain areas. The histaminergic system is
involved in basic physiological functions, such as the sleep-wake cycle, energy
and endocrine homeostasis, sensory and motor functions, cognition, and attention,
which are all severely affected in neuropsychiatric disorders. Here, we present
recent postmortem findings on the alterations in this system in neuropsychiatric 
disorders, including Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD),
Huntington's disease (HD), depression, and narcolepsy. In addition, we highlight 
the need to validate animal models for these diseases and also for Tourette's
syndrome (TS) in relation to alterations in the histaminergic system. Moreover,
we discuss the potential for, and concerns over, the use of novel histamine 3
receptor (H3R) antagonists/inverse agonists as treatment for such disorders.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.008 
PMID: 25575625  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Mar;38(3):129-38. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.005. Epub
2014 Dec 30.

Translating the MAM model of psychosis to humans.

Modinos G(1), Allen P(2), Grace AA(3), McGuire P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and
Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK. Electronic address:
gemma.modinos@kcl.ac.uk. (2)Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of
Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.
(3)Departments of Neuroscience, Psychiatry, and Psychology, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

Elevated dopamine function and alterations in medial temporal lobe (MTL)
structure and function are two of the most robust findings in schizophrenia, but 
how interactions between these abnormalities underlie the onset of psychosis is
unclear. The methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) rodent model proposes that
psychosis develops as a result of a perturbation of MTL function, leading to
elevated striatal dopamine dysfunction. Here, we review several recent
neuroimaging studies that examine components of the putative model in humans with
an ultra high risk (UHR) of the psychosis. While data from these studies are
broadly consistent with the MAM model, caution is required when comparing data
across animal and human studies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.005 
PMCID: PMC4455929
PMID: 25554679  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Feb;38(2):67-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.01.001. Epub 2015 
Jan 15.

The developmental origins of spatial navigation: are we headed in the right
direction?

Blumberg MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Psychology and Biology, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA
52242, USA. Electronic address: mark-blumberg@uiowa.edu.

Navigation depends upon neural systems that monitor spatial location and head
orientation. Recent developmental findings have led some to conclude that these
systems are innate. Such claims are premature. But also, there are more
meaningful ways to arrive at answers about developmental origins than by invoking
the outdated nature-nurture dichotomy.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2015.01.001 
PMCID: PMC4324101
PMID: 25600500  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Feb;38(2):96-107. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.003. Epub
2014 Dec 24.

Epigenetic mechanisms underlying learning and the inheritance of learned
behaviors.

Dias BG(1), Maddox SA(2), Klengel T(2), Ressler KJ(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA; Behavioral Neuroscience and Psychiatric Disorders,
Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Atlanta, GA, USA; Howard Hughes Medical 
Institute, Bethesda, MD, USA. (2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral
Sciences, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA; Behavioral
Neuroscience and Psychiatric Disorders, Yerkes National Primate Research Center, 
Atlanta, GA, USA. (3)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, USA; Behavioral Neuroscience and
Psychiatric Disorders, Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Atlanta, GA, USA;
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, MD, USA. Electronic address:
kressle@emory.edu.

Gene expression and regulation is an important sculptor of the behavior of
organisms. Epigenetic mechanisms regulate gene expression not by altering the
genetic alphabet but rather by the addition of chemical modifications to proteins
associated with the alphabet or of methyl marks to the alphabet itself. Being
dynamic, epigenetic mechanisms of gene regulation serve as an important bridge
between environmental stimuli and genotype. In this review, we outline epigenetic
mechanisms by which gene expression is regulated in animals and humans. Using
fear learning as a framework, we then delineate how such mechanisms underlie
learning and stress responsiveness. Finally, we discuss how epigenetic mechanisms
might inform us about the transgenerational inheritance of behavioral traits that
are being increasingly reported.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.003 
PMCID: PMC4323865
PMID: 25544352  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Feb;38(2):77-85. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.002. Epub 2014
Dec 22.

Do sensorimotor β-oscillations maintain muscle synergy representations in primary
motor cortex?

Aumann TD(1), Prut Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, The University of
Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: taumann@unimelb.edu.au.
(2)Department of Medical Neurobiology, Institute for Medical Research
Israel-Canada (IMRIC) and The Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Brain Sciences
(ELSC), The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel.

Coherent β-oscillations are a dominant feature of the sensorimotor system yet
their function remains enigmatic. We propose that, in addition to cell intrinsic 
and/or local network interactions, they are supported by activity propagating
recurrently around closed neural 'loops' between primary motor cortex (M1),
muscles, and back to M1 via somatosensory pathways. Individual loops reciprocally
connect individual muscle synergies ('motor primitives') with their
representations in M1, and the conduction time around each loop resonates with
the periodic spiking of its constituent neurons/muscles. During β-oscillations,
this resonance strengthens within-loop connectivity (via long-term potentiation, 
LTP), whereas non-resonance between different loops weakens connectivity (via
long-term depression, LTD) between M1 representations of different muscle
synergies. In this way, β-oscillations help maintain accurate and discrete
representations of muscle synergies in M1.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.002 
PMID: 25541288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Feb;38(2):86-95. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.11.006. Epub 2014
Dec 22.

The dynamic pain connectome.

Kucyi A(1), Davis KD(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain, Imaging, and Behaviour - Systems Neuroscience, Toronto
Western Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada;
Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Division of Brain, Imaging, and Behaviour - Systems Neuroscience, Toronto
Western Research Institute, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada;
Institute of Medical Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada;
Division of Neurosurgery, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada;
Department of Surgery, University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronic
address: kdavis@uhnres.utoronto.ca.

Traditionally, studies of how pain and attention modulate one another involved
explicit cognitive-state manipulations. However, emerging evidence suggests that 
spontaneous brain-wide network communication is intrinsically dynamic on multiple
timescales, and attentional states are in constant fluctuation. Here, in light of
studies on neural mechanisms of spontaneous attentional fluctuations and pain
variability, we introduce the concept of a dynamic 'pain connectome' in the
brain. We describe how recent progress in our understanding of individual
differences in intrinsic attention to pain and neural network dynamics in chronic
pain can facilitate development of personalized pain therapies. Furthermore, we
emphasize that the dynamics of pain-attention interactions must be accounted for 
in the contemporary search for a 'neural signature' of the pain connectome.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.11.006 
PMID: 25541287  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Feb;38(2):108-16. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.001. Epub
2014 Dec 19.

Macromolecular transport in synapse to nucleus communication.

Panayotis N(1), Karpova A(2), Kreutz MR(2), Fainzilber M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel. (2)Neuroplasticity Group, Leibniz Institute for Neurobiology,
Brenneckestraße 6, Magdeburg 39118, Germany. (3)Department of Biological
Chemistry, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. Electronic
address: mike.fainzilber@weizmann.ac.il.

Local signaling events at synapses or axon terminals must be communicated to the 
nucleus to elicit transcriptional responses. The lengths of neuronal processes
pose a significant challenge for such intracellular communication. This challenge
is met by mechanisms ranging from rapid signals encoded in calcium waves to
slower macromolecular signaling complexes carried by molecular motors. Here we
summarize recent findings on macromolecular signaling from the synapse to the
nucleus, in comparison to those employed in injury signaling along axons. A
number of common themes emerge, including combinatorial signal encoding by
post-translational mechanisms such as differential phosphorylation and
proteolysis, and conserved roles for importins in coordinating signaling
complexes. Neurons may integrate ionic flux with motor-transported signals as a
temporal code for synaptic plasticity signaling.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.12.001 
PMID: 25534890  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Feb;38(2):117-25. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.11.003. Epub
2014 Dec 17.

Cerebral cortex assembly: generating and reprogramming projection neuron
diversity.

Lodato S(1), Shetty AS(1), Arlotta P(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard University,
Cambridge, MA, USA. (2)Department of Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology, Harvard 
University, Cambridge, MA, USA. Electronic address: paola_arlotta@harvard.edu.

The mammalian cerebral cortex is responsible for the highest levels of
associative, cognitive and motor functions. In the central nervous system (CNS)
the cortex stands as a prime example of extreme neuronal diversity, broadly
classified into excitatory projection neurons (PNs) and inhibitory interneurons
(INs). We review here recent progress made in understanding the strategies and
mechanisms that shape PN diversity during embryogenesis, and discuss how PN
classes may be maintained, postnatally, for the life of the organism. In
addition, we consider the intriguing possibility that PNs may be amenable to
directed reprogramming of their class-specific features to allow enhanced
cortical plasticity in the adult.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.11.003 
PMCID: PMC4334136
PMID: 25529141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Feb;38(2):69-76. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.11.004. Epub 2014
Dec 11.

Developmental mechanisms channeling cortical evolution.

Finlay BL(1), Uchiyama R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral and Evolutionary Neuroscience Group, Department of Psychology, Uris
Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA. Electronic address:
blf2@cornell.edu. (2)Behavioral and Evolutionary Neuroscience Group, Department
of Psychology, Uris Hall, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.

Increase in the area and neuron number of the cerebral cortex over evolutionary
time systematically changes its computational properties. One of the fundamental 
developmental mechanisms generating the cortex is a conserved rostrocaudal
gradient in duration of neuron production, coupled with distinct asymmetries in
the patterns of axon extension and synaptogenesis on the same axis. A small set
of conserved sensorimotor areas with well-defined thalamic input anchors the
rostrocaudal axis. These core mechanisms organize the cortex into two contrasting
topographic zones, while systematically amplifying hierarchical organization on
the rostrocaudal axis in larger brains. Recent work has shown that variation in
'cognitive control' in multiple species correlates best with absolute brain size,
and this may be the behavioral outcome of this progressive organizational change.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.11.004 
PMID: 25497421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jan;38(1):13-25.

Adding fuel to the fire: the impact of stress on the ageing brain.

Prenderville JA, Kennedy PJ, Dinan TG, Cryan JF.

Both ageing and chronic stress are associated with altered brain plasticity,
dysregulation of the immune system, and an increased risk of developing brain
disorders; all of which have consequences for cognitive and emotional processing.
Here we examine the similarities between behavioural changes during ageing and
stress altered behaviours (anxiety, depressive-like behaviour, cognition, and
sociability) in rodents and humans. The molecular mechanisms hypothesised to
mediate age-related changes in brain function including dysfunction of the
hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal (HPA) axis, dysregulation of neurotransmission and
neurotrophic factor signalling, increased inflammatory state, genetic and
epigenetic changes, oxidative stress, metabolic changes, and changes in the
microbiota–gut–brain axis are discussed. Finally, we explore how the already
stressed aged brain psychologically and physiologically responds to external
stressors.


PMID: 25705750  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jan;38(1):1-2. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.11.005. Epub 2014
Dec 1.

How doth the little busy bee: unexpected metabolism.

Barros LF(1), Sierralta J(2), Weber B(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Estudios Científicos (CECs), Valdivia, Chile. Electronic address:
fbarros@cecs.cl. (2)Program of Physiology and Biophysics, Institute of Biomedical
Sciences and Biomedical Neuroscience Institute, Faculty of Medicine, Universidad 
de Chile, Santiago, Chile. (3)Institute of Pharmacology & Toxicology, University 
of Zürich, Switzerland; Neuroscience Center Zurich, University and ETH Zürich,
Switzerland.

Brain energy metabolism powers information processing and behavior, much as
electricity powers a computer. However, a recent study in insects suggests that
this relationship is more interesting, causally linking aggressive behavior to
energetics. These findings may also shed new light on aerobic glycolysis, a
long-standing riddle of human brain physiology.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.11.005 
PMID: 25475341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jan;38(1):36-44. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.10.002. Epub 2014
Nov 14.

Hypothalamic microinflammation: a common basis of metabolic syndrome and aging.

Tang Y(1), Purkayastha S(1), Cai D(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Diabetes Research Center, Institute of
Aging, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY 10461, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Diabetes Research Center, Institute of
Aging, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY 10461, USA. Electronic
address: dongsheng.cai@einstein.yu.edu.

Chronic microinflammation is a hallmark of many aging-related neurodegenerative
diseases as well as metabolic syndrome-driven diseases. Recent research indicates
that chronic caloric excess can lead to hypothalamic microinflammation, which in 
turn participates in the development and progression of metabolic syndrome
disorders such as obesity, glucose intolerance, and hypertension. Additionally,
it was recently shown that increasing age after young adulthood can cause
hypothalamic microinflammation independently of nutritional status, mediating a
central mechanism of systemic aging. Taken together, these findings suggest that 
the hypothalamus has a fundamental role, via hypothalamic microinflammation, in
translating overnutrition and aging into complex outcomes. Here we summarize
recent work and suggest a conceptual model in which hypothalamic
microinflammation is a common mediator of metabolic syndrome and aging.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.10.002 
PMCID: PMC4282817
PMID: 25458920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jan;38(1):3-12. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.007. Epub 2014 
Oct 22.

Thalamic pathways underlying prefrontal cortex-medial temporal lobe oscillatory
interactions.

Ketz NA(1), Jensen O(2), O'Reilly RC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of Colorado Boulder, 345
UCB, Boulder, CO, USA. Electronic address: nicholas.ketz@colorado.edu. (2)Radboud
University Nijmegen, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and Behaviour,
6500HB, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. (3)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, 
University of Colorado Boulder, 345 UCB, Boulder, CO, USA.

As focus shifts to large-scale network interactions involved in memory, it is
becoming increasingly clear that oscillatory dynamics are critically involved. A 
number of studies have shown a negative correlation between memory retrieval in
alpha and beta power, and a positive correlation between retrieval and theta
power. In this opinion article, we suggest three thalamic sub-regions responsible
for the coordination of oscillatory activity and the facilitation of memory
processes. Specifically, the medial dorsal nucleus is related to changes in beta 
synchrony, the pulvinar is responsible for alpha synchrony, and the anterior
thalamus is related to theta synchrony. These pathways may be modulated via
frontal control, and changes in oscillations could be used to track the
engagement of underlying memory systems.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.007 
PMID: 25455705  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jan;38(1):55-65. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.005. Epub 2014
Nov 8.

Congenital visual pathway abnormalities: a window onto cortical stability and
plasticity.

Hoffmann MB(1), Dumoulin SO(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Visual Processing Laboratory, Otto-von-Guericke
University, Magdeburg, Germany; Center for Behavioral Brain Sciences, Magdeburg, 
Germany. Electronic address: michael.hoffmann@med.ovgu.de. (2)Department of
Experimental Psychology, Helmholtz Institute, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The
Netherlands.

Sensory systems project information in a highly organized manner to the brain,
where it is preserved in maps of the sensory structures. These sensory
projections are altered in congenital abnormalities, such as anophthalmia,
albinism, achiasma, and hemihydranencephaly. Consequently, these abnormalities,
profoundly affect the organization of the visual system. Surprisingly, visual
perception remains largely intact, except for anophthalmia. Recent brain imaging 
advances shed light on the mechanisms that underlie this phenomenon. In contrast 
to animal models, in humans the plasticity of thalamocortical connections appears
limited, thus demonstrating the importance of cortical adaptations. We suggest
that congenital visual pathway abnormalities provide a valuable model to
investigate the principles of plasticity that make visual representations
available for perception and behavior in humans.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.005 
PMID: 25448619  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jan;38(1):45-54. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.11.002. Epub 2014
Nov 25.

Dendritic function in vivo.

Grienberger C(1), Chen X(2), Konnerth A(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Technical University Munich, Munich, Germany;
Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn, VA, USA.
(2)Institute of Neuroscience, Technical University Munich, Munich, Germany; Brain
Research Center, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience, Technical University Munich, Munich, Germany;
Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy) and Center for Integrated Protein 
Sciences (CIPSM), Munich, Germany. Electronic address:
arthur.konnerth@lrz.tum.de.

Dendrites are the predominant entry site for excitatory synaptic potentials in
most types of central neurons. There is increasing evidence that dendrites are
not just passive transmitting devices but play active roles in synaptic
integration through linear and non-linear mechanisms. Frequently, excitatory
synapses are formed on dendritic spines. In addition to relaying incoming
electrical signals, spines can play important roles in modifying these signals
through complex biochemical processes and, thereby, determine learning and memory
formation. Here, we review recent advances in our understanding of the function
of spines and dendrites in central mammalian neurons in vivo by focusing
particularly on insights obtained from Ca(2+) imaging studies.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.11.002 
PMID: 25432423  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jan;38(1):26-35. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.003. Epub 2014
Oct 2.

Autophagy in Huntington disease and huntingtin in autophagy.

Martin DD(1), Ladha S(2), Ehrnhoefer DE(2), Hayden MR(3).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics (CMMT), Department of Medical
Genetics, Child and Family Research Institute, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, BC, Canada. Electronic address: dalem@cmmt.ubc.ca. (2)Centre for
Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics (CMMT), Department of Medical Genetics, Child
and Family Research Institute, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC,
Canada. (3)Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics (CMMT), Department of
Medical Genetics, Child and Family Research Institute, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. Electronic address: mrh@cmmt.ubc.ca.

Autophagy is an important biological process that is essential for the removal of
damaged organelles and toxic or aggregated proteins by delivering them to the
lysosome for degradation. Consequently, autophagy has become a primary target for
the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases that involve aggregating proteins. In
Huntington disease (HD), an expansion of the polyglutamine (polyQ) tract in the
N-terminus of the huntingtin (HTT) protein leads to protein aggregation. However,
HD is unique among the neurodegenerative proteinopathies in that autophagy is not
only dysfunctional but wild type (wt) HTT also appears to play several roles in
regulating the dynamics of autophagy. Herein, we attempt to integrate the
recently described novel roles of wtHTT and altered autophagy in HD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.003 
PMID: 25282404  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Dec;37(12):683-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.10.003. Epub
2014 Nov 14.

Categorical diagnosis: a fatal flaw for autism research?

London EB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Autism Treatment Research Laboratory, New York State Institute for Basic
Research in Developmental Disabilities, Albany, NY, USA. Electronic address:
naarlondon@gmail.com.

The use of autism as a diagnostic category guiding translational research is
fraught with so many problems that the validity of research conclusions is
suspect. Neuroscientists would benefit from attending to nosological difficulties
to formulate meaningful research bridging basic biological systems and human
disease. I propose a diagnostic schema that could translate more efficiently
between the clinical and the neuroscience perspective as a step to improve the
effectiveness of this type of research.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.10.003 
PMID: 25465942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Dec;37(12):687-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.10.001. Epub
2014 Oct 22.

Ionotropic glutamate receptors made crystal clear.

Bowie D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, McGill University, Montréal,
Québec, Canada. Electronic address: derek.bowie@mcgill.ca.

Two recent crystallographic studies of the full-length GluA2 AMPA receptor
provide our first insights into how the modular domains of the tetrameric complex
coordinate the process of activation. These findings herald a new era in the
structure-function analyses of neurotransmitter receptors, a fitting achievement 
for the 'International Year of Crystallography'.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.10.001 
PMID: 25455706  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Dec;37(12):689-97. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.012. Epub
2014 Sep 22.

Touch is a team effort: interplay of submodalities in cutaneous sensibility.

Saal HP(1), Bensmaia SJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
IL, USA. (2)Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, 
Chicago, IL, USA; Committee on Computational Neuroscience, University of Chicago,
Chicago, IL, USA. Electronic address: sliman@uchicago.edu.

Traditionally, different classes of cutaneous mechanoreceptive afferents are
ascribed different and largely non-overlapping functional roles (for example
texture or motion) stemming from their different response properties. This
functional segregation is thought to be reflected in cortex, where each neuron
receives input from a single submodality. We summarize work that challenges this 
notion. First, while it is possible to design artificial stimuli that
preferentially excite a single afferent class, most natural stimuli excite all
afferents and most tactile percepts are shaped by multiple submodalities. Second,
closer inspection of cortical responses reveals that most neurons receive
convergent input from multiple afferent classes. We argue that cortical neurons
should be grouped based on their function rather than on their submodality
composition.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.012 
PMID: 25257208  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Dec;37(12):721-32. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.004. Epub
2014 Sep 12.

Lost after translation: missorting of Tau protein and consequences for Alzheimer 
disease.

Zempel H(1), Mandelkow E(2).

Author information: 
(1)German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn, Germany. (2)German 
Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Bonn, Germany; Center of Advanced
European Studies and Research (CAESAR), Bonn, Germany; Max Planck Institute for
Neurological Research, Hamburg Outstation, c/o Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron
(DESY), Hamburg, Germany. Electronic address: mand@mpasmb.desy.de.

Tau is a microtubule-associated-protein that is sorted into neuronal axons in
physiological conditions. In Alzheimer disease (AD) and other tauopathies, Tau
sorting mechanisms fail and Tau becomes missorted into the somatodendritic
compartment. In AD, aberrant amyloid-β (Aβ) production might trigger Tau
missorting. The physiological axonal sorting of Tau depends on the developmental 
stage of the neuron, the phosphorylation state of Tau and the microtubule
cytoskeleton. Disease-associated missorting of Tau is connected to increased
phosphorylation and aggregation of Tau, and impaired microtubule interactions.
Disease-causing mechanisms involve impaired transport, aberrant kinase
activation, non-physiological interactions of Tau, and prion-like spreading. In
this review we focus on the physiological and pathological (mis)sorting of Tau,
the underlying mechanisms, and effects in disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.004 
PMID: 25223701  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Dec;37(12):706-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.005. Epub
2014 Sep 11.

Epigenetic mechanisms in fear conditioning: implications for treating
post-traumatic stress disorder.

Kwapis JL(1), Wood MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Center for the Neurobiology of
Learning and Memory, University of California, Irvine, CA 92697, USA.
(2)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Center for the Neurobiology of
Learning and Memory, University of California, Irvine, CA 92697, USA. Electronic 
address: mwood@uci.edu.

Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other anxiety disorders stemming from
dysregulated fear memory are problematic and costly. Understanding the molecular 
mechanisms that contribute to the formation and maintenance of these persistent
fear associations is crucial to developing treatments for PTSD. Epigenetic
mechanisms, which control gene expression to produce long-lasting changes in
cellular function, may support the formation of fear memory underlying PTSD. We
address here the role of epigenetic mechanisms in the formation, storage,
updating, and extinction of fear memories. We also discuss methods of targeting
these epigenetic mechanisms to reduce the initial formation of fear memory or to 
enhance its extinction. Epigenetic mechanisms may provide a novel target for
pharmaceutical and other treatments to reduce aversive memory contributing to
PTSD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.005 
PMCID: PMC4258434
PMID: 25220045  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Dec;37(12):733-41. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.007. Epub
2014 Sep 9.

Assessing the utility of intermediate phenotypes for genetic mapping of
psychiatric disease.

Flint J(1), Timpson N(2), Munafò M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Oxford OX3 7BN, UK. Electronic
address: jf@well.ox.ac.uk. (2)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, University of
Bristol, Bristol BS8 2BN, UK. (3)MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, University of
Bristol, Bristol BS8 2BN, UK; UK Centre for Tobacco and Alcohol Studies and
School of Experimental Psychology, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 1TU, UK.

Intermediate phenotypes are traits positioned somewhere between genetic variation
and disease. They represent a target for attempts to find disease-associated
genetic variants and elucidation of mechanisms. Psychiatry has been particularly 
enamoured with intermediate phenotypes, due to uncertainty about disease
aetiology, inconclusive results in early psychiatric genetic studies, and their
appeal relative to traditional diagnostic categories. In this review, we argue
that new genetic findings are relevant to the question of the utility of these
constructs. In particular, results from genome-wide association studies of
psychiatric disorders now allow an assessment of the potential role of particular
intermediate phenotypes. Based on such an analysis, as well as other recent
results, we conclude that intermediate phenotypes are likely to be most valuable 
in understanding mechanism.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.007 
PMCID: PMC4961231
PMID: 25216981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Dec;37(12):742-53. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.003. Epub
2014 Sep 2.

Applications of transcranial direct current stimulation for understanding brain
function.

Filmer HL(1), Dux PE(2), Mattingley JB(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, The University of Queensland, St Lucia, QLD 4072,
Australia. Electronic address: h.l.filmer@gmail.com. (2)School of Psychology, The
University of Queensland, St Lucia, QLD 4072, Australia. (3)School of Psychology,
The University of Queensland, St Lucia, QLD 4072, Australia; Queensland Brain
Institute, The University of Queensland, St Lucia QLD 4072 Australia.

In recent years there has been an exponential rise in the number of studies
employing transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) as a means of gaining a 
systems-level understanding of the cortical substrates underlying behaviour.
These advances have allowed inferences to be made regarding the neural operations
that shape perception, cognition, and action. Here we summarise how tDCS works,
and show how research using this technique is expanding our understanding of the 
neural basis of cognitive and motor training. We also explain how oscillatory
tDCS can elucidate the role of fluctuations in neural activity, in both frequency
and phase, in perception, learning, and memory. Finally, we highlight some key
methodological issues for tDCS and suggest how these can be addressed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.003 
PMID: 25189102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Dec;37(12):698-705. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.011. Epub
2014 Aug 28.

From membrane excitability to metazoan psychology.

Cook ND(1), Carvalho GB(2), Damasio A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Informatics, Kansai University, Osaka 569-1095, Japan; Brain and
Creativity Institute, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA
90089-2921, USA. Electronic address: nc_876@usc.edu. (2)Brain and Creativity
Institute, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089-2921, USA.

Unlike the nonexcitable cell membranes that are ubiquitous in all domains of
life, excitable membranes are found almost exclusively in animal organisms
(Protozoa and Metazoa). Their transient permeability to ion flow makes possible
the rapid detection of, and response to, external stimuli, and results in the
phenomena that most clearly distinguish fauna from flora: perception, cognition, 
and motor activity. Interestingly, all known forms of membrane excitability are a
consequence of one unique mechanism: the influx of positively charged ions into
the normally alkaline cytoplasm. Here, we suggest that the sudden reversal of the
membrane potential during the sensory potential and the action potential is an
electrostatic disturbance of homeostasis that is the necessary first step in the 
processes of 'sentience' and 'irritability'.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.011 
PMID: 25176475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Nov;37(11):618-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.006. Epub
2014 Oct 20.

Is primary visual cortex necessary for visual awareness?

Silvanto J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Faculty of Science and Technology, University of
Westminster, 115 New Cavendish Street, W1W 6UW, London, UK; Brain Research Unit, 
O.V. Lounasmaa Laboratory, School of Science, Aalto University, PO BOX 15100,
00076 Aalto, Finland. Electronic address: j.silvanto@westminster.ac.uk.

Influential models propose that conscious experience of extrastriate activity
requires the integrity of primary visual cortex (V1). A new study challenges this
view by demonstrating that when V1 is lesioned, visual qualia can be induced when
transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is applied over the patients'
ipsilesional hemisphere.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.006 
PMID: 25442362  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Nov;37(11):615-7. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.002. Epub
2014 Oct 7.

The Brain Prize 2014: complex human functions.

Grigaityte K(1), Iacoboni M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Ahmanson-Lovelace Brain Mapping Center, Department of Psychiatry and
Biobehavioral Sciences, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA,
USA. (2)Ahmanson-Lovelace Brain Mapping Center, Department of Psychiatry and
Biobehavioral Sciences, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA,
USA. Electronic address: Iacoboni@ucla.edu.

Giacomo Rizzolatti, Stanislas Dehaene, and Trevor Robbins were recently awarded
the 2014 Grete Lundbeck European Brain Research Prize for their 'pioneering
research on higher brain mechanisms underpinning such complex human functions as 
literacy, numeracy, motivated behavior and social cognition, and for their effort
to understand cognitive and behavioral disorders'. Why was their work
highlighted? Is there anything that links together these seemingly disparate
lines of research?

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.002 
PMID: 25303794  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Nov;37(11):620-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.010. Epub
2014 Sep 15.

Drowning stars: reassessing the role of astrocytes in brain edema.

Thrane AS(1), Rangroo Thrane V(2), Nedergaard M(3).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Glial Disease and Therapeutics, Center for Translational
Neuromedicine, Department of Neurosurgery, University of Rochester Medical
Center, Rochester, New York 14642, USA; Department of Ophthalmology, Haukeland
University Hospital, Bergen 5021, Norway; Letten Centre, Institute of Basic
Medical Sciences, Department of Physiology, University of Oslo, 0317 Oslo,
Norway. Electronic address: alexander.thrane@gmail.com. (2)Division of Glial
Disease and Therapeutics, Center for Translational Neuromedicine, Department of
Neurosurgery, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, New York 14642, 
USA; Department of Ophthalmology, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen 5021,
Norway; Letten Centre, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Department of
Physiology, University of Oslo, 0317 Oslo, Norway. (3)Division of Glial Disease
and Therapeutics, Center for Translational Neuromedicine, Department of
Neurosurgery, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, New York 14642, 
USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jun;38(6):331-2.

Edema formation frequently complicates brain infarction, tumors, and trauma.
Despite the significant mortality of this condition, current treatment options
are often ineffective or incompletely understood. Recent studies have revealed
the existence of a brain-wide paravascular pathway for cerebrospinal (CSF) and
interstitial fluid (ISF) exchange. The current review critically examines the
contribution of this 'glymphatic' system to the main types of brain edema. We
propose that in cytotoxic edema, energy depletion enhances glymphatic CSF influx,
whilst suppressing ISF efflux. We also argue that paravascular inflammation or
'paravasculitis' plays a critical role in vasogenic edema. Finally, recent
advances in diagnostic imaging of glymphatic function may hold the key to
defining the edema profile of individual patients, and thus enable more targeted 
therapy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.010 
PMCID: PMC4253572
PMID: 25236348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Nov;37(11):663-73. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.010. Epub
2014 Aug 24.

Presynaptic long-term depression mediated by Gi/o-coupled receptors.

Atwood BK(1), Lovinger DM(1), Mathur BN(2).

Author information: 
(1)Section on Synaptic Pharmacology, Laboratory for Integrative Neuroscience,
National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, US National Institutes of
Health, 5625 Fishers Lane, MSC 9411, Bethesda, MD 20852-9411, USA. (2)Department 
of Pharmacology, University of Maryland, School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21201,
USA. Electronic address: bmathur@som.umaryland.edu.

Long-term depression (LTD) of the efficacy of synaptic transmission is now
recognized as an important mechanism for the regulation of information storage
and the control of actions, as well as for synapse, neuron, and circuit
development. Studies of LTD mechanisms have focused mainly on postsynaptic
AMPA-type glutamate receptor trafficking. However, the focus has now expanded to 
include presynaptically expressed plasticity, the predominant form being
initiated by presynaptically expressed Gi/o-coupled metabotropic receptor
(Gi/o-GPCR) activation. Several forms of LTD involving activation of different
presynaptic Gi/o-GPCRs as a 'common pathway' are described. We review here the
literature on presynaptic Gi/o-GPCR-mediated LTD, discuss known mechanisms, gaps 
in our knowledge, and evaluate whether all Gi/o-GPCRs are capable of inducing
presynaptic LTD.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.010 
PMCID: PMC4252515
PMID: 25160683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Nov;37(11):674-82. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.005. Epub
2014 Aug 24.

The mouse that roared: neural mechanisms of social hierarchy.

Wang F(1), Kessels HW(2), Hu H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience and State Key Laboratory of Neuroscience, Shanghai
Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031,
China. (2)The Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience, The Royal Academy of Arts
and Sciences, Amsterdam 1019 RG, The Netherlands. Electronic address:
h.kessels@nin.knaw.nl. (3)Institute of Neuroscience and State Key Laboratory of
Neuroscience, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China. Electronic address: hailan@ion.ac.cn.

Hierarchical social status greatly influences behavior and health. Human and
animal studies have begun to identify the brain regions that are activated during
the formation of social hierarchies. They point towards the prefrontal cortex
(PFC) as a central regulator, with brain areas upstream of the PFC conveying
information about social status, and downstream brain regions executing dominance
behavior. This review summarizes our current knowledge on the neural circuits
that control social status. We discuss how the neural mechanisms for various
types of dominance behavior can be studied in laboratory rodents by selective
manipulation of neuronal activity or synaptic plasticity. These studies may help 
in finding the cause of social stress-related mental and physical health
problems.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.005 
PMID: 25160682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Nov;37(11):642-52. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.008. Epub
2014 Aug 21.

Modeling motor neuron disease: the matter of time.

Arbab M(1), Baars S(2), Geijsen N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Hubrecht Institute and University Medical Center (UMC) Utrecht, Utrecht, The
Netherlands; Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The
Netherlands. (2)Hubrecht Institute and University Medical Center (UMC) Utrecht,
Utrecht, The Netherlands. (3)Hubrecht Institute and University Medical Center
(UMC) Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands; Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht 
University, Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: n.geijsen@hubrecht.eu.

Stem cell technologies have created new opportunities to generate unlimited
numbers of human neurons in the lab and study neurodegenerative disorders such as
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). Although
some disease hallmarks have been reported in patient-derived stem cell models, it
is proving more difficult to recapitulate the full phenotypic extent of these
disorders. The problem with these stem cell models lies in the disparity between 
the advanced age of onset of neurodegenerative disorders and the embryonic nature
of the in vitro derived cell types. In this review we discuss experimental
methods of in vitro aging of neural cell types as a means to elicit late-onset
symptoms in induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) models of neurodegenerative
disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.008 
PMID: 25156326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Nov;37(11):629-41. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.002. Epub
2014 Aug 20.

MicroPET imaging and transgenic models: a blueprint for Alzheimer's disease
clinical research.

Zimmer ER(1), Parent MJ(2), Cuello AC(3), Gauthier S(2), Rosa-Neto P(4).

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory (TNL), McGill Center for Studies in
Aging, Douglas Mental Health University Institute, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; PET 
unit, Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI), Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Department
of Biochemistry, Federal University of Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Rio
Grande do Sul, Brazil. (2)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory (TNL), McGill
Center for Studies in Aging, Douglas Mental Health University Institute,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada; PET unit, Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI),
Montreal, Quebec, Canada. (3)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, McGill 
University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. (4)Translational Neuroimaging Laboratory
(TNL), McGill Center for Studies in Aging, Douglas Mental Health University
Institute, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; PET unit, Montreal Neurological Institute
(MNI), Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Electronic address: pedro.rosa@mcgill.ca.

Over the past decades, developments in neuroimaging have significantly
contributed to the understanding of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology.
Specifically, positron emission tomography (PET) imaging agents targeting amyloid
deposition have provided unprecedented opportunities for refining in vivo
diagnosis, monitoring disease propagation, and advancing AD clinical trials.
Furthermore, the use of a miniaturized version of PET (microPET) in transgenic
(Tg) animals has been a successful strategy for accelerating the development of
novel radiopharmaceuticals. However, advanced applications of microPET focusing
on the longitudinal propagation of AD pathophysiology or therapeutic strategies
remain in their infancy. This review highlights what we have learned from
microPET imaging in Tg models displaying amyloid and tau pathology, and
anticipates cutting-edge applications with high translational value to clinical
research.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.002 
PMID: 25151336  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Nov;37(11):653-62. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.001. Epub
2014 Jul 30.

Emerging role of CaMKII in neuropsychiatric disease.

Robison AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Michigan State University, Lansing, MI 48824, USA.
Electronic address: robiso45@msu.edu.

Although it has been known for decades that hippocampal calcium/calmodulin
(CaM)-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) plays an essential role in learning
and memory consolidation, the roles of CaMKII in other brain regions are only
recently being explored in depth. A series of recent studies suggest that CaMKII 
dysfunction throughout the brain may underlie myriad neuropsychiatric disorders, 
including drug addiction, schizophrenia, depression, epilepsy, and multiple
neurodevelopmental disorders, perhaps through maladaptations in glutamate
signaling and neuroplasticity. I review here the structure, function, subcellular
localization, and expression patterns of CaMKII isoforms, as well as recent
advances demonstrating that disturbances in these properties may contribute to
psychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.001 
PMID: 25087161  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):525-7. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.002.

The death of Cajal and the end of scientific romanticism and individualism.

DeFelipe J(1), Garrido E(2), Markram H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Cajal (CSIC) and Laboratorio Cajal de Circuitos Corticales (CTB),
UPM, Campus Montegancedo, Pozuelo de Alarcón, 28223 Madrid, Spain. Electronic
address: defelipe@cajal.csic.es. (2)Department of Physiological Sciences II,
University of Barcelona, 08907 Hospitalet de Llobregat, Spain. (3)Laboratory of
Neural Microcircuitry, Brain Mind Institute, École Polytechnique Fédérale de
Lausanne, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.002 
PMID: 25288199  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):523-4. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.004. Epub
2014 Sep 26.

TiNS special issue: circuit development and remodeling.

Clark AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Trends in Neurosciences, Cell Press, 600 Technology Square 5(th) Floor,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. Electronic address: aclark@cell.com.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.004 
PMID: 25266364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):604-14. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.011. Epub
2014 Sep 22.

Synapse rearrangements upon learning: from divergent-sparse connectivity to
dedicated sub-circuits.

Caroni P(1), Chowdhury A(2), Lahr M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institut, Basel, Switzerland. Electronic address:
pico.caroni@fmi.chi. (2)Friedrich Miescher Institut, Basel, Switzerland.

Learning can involve formation of new synapses and loss of synapses, providing
memory traces of learned skills. Recent findings suggest that these synapse
rearrangements reflect assembly of task-related sub-circuits from initially
broadly distributed and sparse connectivity in the brain. These local circuit
remodeling processes involve rapid emergence of synapses upon learning, followed 
by protracted validation involving strengthening of some new synapses, and
selective elimination of others. The timing of these consolidation processes can 
vary. Here, we review these findings, focusing on how molecular/cellular
mechanisms of synapse assembly, strengthening, and elimination might interface
with circuit/system mechanisms of learning and memory consolidation. An
integrated understanding of these learning-related processes should provide a
better basis to elucidate how experience, genetic background, and disease
influence brain function.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.011 
PMID: 25257207  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):528-30. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.001. Epub
2014 Sep 20.

Formation of excitation-inhibition balance: inhibition listens and changes its
tune.

Tao HW(1), Li YT(2), Zhang LI(3).

Author information: 
(1)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA; Department of Cell 
and Neurobiology, Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA.
Electronic address: htao@usc.edu. (2)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Los Angeles, 
CA 90089, USA. (3)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA;
Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Keck School of Medicine, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA. Electronic address:
liizhang@usc.edu.

Comment on
    Nature. 2014 Jul 31;511(7511):596-600.

Recently, Xue, Atallah, and Scanziani reported that excitation/inhibition ratios 
across cortical pyramidal neurons are equalized by activity-dependent modulations
of parvalbumin-neuron mediated feedforward inhibition. Their results raise
questions about the developmental formation of this excitation-inhibition balance
and the potential activity-dependent synaptic plasticity rules that mediate this 
process.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.09.001 
PMCID: PMC4189014
PMID: 25248294  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):563-71. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.006. Epub
2014 Sep 12.

Adult neural stem cells stake their ground.

Lim DA(1), Alvarez-Buylla A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of California, San Francisco,
San Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regeneration
Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of California, San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Veterans Affairs Medical Center, University of
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. Electronic address:
limd@neurosurg.ucsf.edu. (2)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA; Eli and Edythe Broad
Center of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell Research, University of California,
San Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. Electronic address:
abuylla@stemcell.ucsf.edu.

The birth of new neurons in the walls of the adult brain lateral ventricles has
captured the attention of many neuroscientists for over 2 decades, yielding key
insights into the identity and regulation of neural stem cells (NSCs). In the
adult ventricular-subventricular zone (V-SVZ), NSCs are a specialized form of
astrocyte that generates several types of neurons for the olfactory bulb. In this
review, we discuss recent findings regarding the unique organization of the V-SVZ
NSC niche, the multiple regulatory controls of neuronal production, the distinct 
regional identities of adult NSCs, and the epigenetic mechanisms that maintain
adult neurogenesis. Understanding how V-SVZ NSCs establish and maintain lifelong 
neurogenesis continues to provide surprising insights into the cellular and
molecular regulation of neural development.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.006 
PMCID: PMC4203324
PMID: 25223700  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):551-62. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.009. Epub
2014 Sep 11.

Development and plasticity of commissural circuits: from locomotion to brain
repair.

Chédotal A(1).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM, UMRS_U968, Institut de la Vision, 17 Rue Moreau, Paris, F-75012,
France; Sorbonne Université, UPMC Univ Paris 06, Institut de la Vision, Paris,
F-75012, France; CNRS, UMR_7210, Paris, F-75012, France. Electronic address:
alain.chedotal@inserm.fr.

Commissural neurons project their axons across the midline of the nervous system 
to contact neurons on the opposite side. Although their existence has been known 
for more than a century, the function of brain commissures, as well as their
diversity and evolutionary advantage, are far from understood. Recent genetic
studies in mammals have led to the identification of subsets of commissural
neurons, which, in the hindbrain and spinal cord, control the tuning and
bilateral coordination of locomotion. The molecular mechanisms and
transcriptional programs which specify axonal laterality during development are
also now being elucidated. Finally, new studies have confirmed that axonal
laterality is plastic and that facilitating the commissural sprouting of axon
collaterals might influence functional recovery after brain injury.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.009 
PMID: 25220044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):583-93. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.008. Epub
2014 Sep 10.

Axon plasticity in the mammalian central nervous system after injury.

Chen M(1), Zheng B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman 
Drive, MC 0691, La Jolla, CA 92093-0691, USA. (2)Department of Neurosciences,
University of California, San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, MC 0691, La Jolla, CA
92093-0691, USA. Electronic address: binhai@ucsd.edu.

It is widely recognized that severed axons in the adult central nervous system
(CNS) have limited capacity to regenerate. However, mounting evidence from
studies of CNS injury response and repair is challenging the prevalent view that 
the adult mammalian CNS is incapable of structural reorganization to adapt to an 
altered environment. Animal studies demonstrate the potential to achieve
significant anatomical repair and functional recovery following CNS injury by
manipulating axon growth regulators alone or in combination with
activity-dependent strategies. With a growing understanding of the cellular and
molecular mechanisms regulating axon plasticity, and the availability of new
experimental tools to map detour circuits of functional importance, directing
circuit rewiring to promote functional recovery may be achieved.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.008 
PMCID: PMC4190162
PMID: 25218468  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):572-82. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.007. Epub
2014 Aug 26.

Preserve and protect: maintaining axons within functional circuits.

Pease SE(1), Segal RA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA;
Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02215,
USA; Department of Pediatric Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA
02215, USA. (2)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA
02115, USA; Department of Cancer Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston,
MA 02215, USA; Department of Pediatric Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute,
Boston, MA 02215, USA. Electronic address: rosalind_segal@dfci.harvard.edu.

During development, neural circuits are initially generated by exuberant
innervation and are rapidly refined by selective preservation and elimination of 
axons. The establishment and maintenance of functional circuits therefore
requires coordination of axon survival and degeneration pathways. Both developing
and mature circuits rely on interdependent mitochondrial and cytoskeletal
components to maintain axonal health and homeostasis; injury or diseases that
impinge on these components frequently cause pathologic axon loss. Here, we
review recent findings that identify mechanisms of axonal preservation in the
contexts of development, injury, and disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.007 
PMCID: PMC4245037
PMID: 25167775  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):594-603. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.009. Epub
2014 Aug 21.

Neuronal remodeling in retinal circuit assembly, disassembly, and reassembly.

D'Orazi FD(1), Suzuki SC(1), Wong RO(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, 1959 NE Pacific 
Street, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. (2)Department of Biological Structure, University
of Washington, 1959 NE Pacific Street, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. Electronic
address: wongr2@uw.edu.

Developing neuronal circuits often undergo a period of refinement to eliminate
aberrant synaptic connections. Inappropriate connections can also form among
surviving neurons during neuronal degeneration. The laminar organization of the
vertebrate retina enables synaptic reorganization to be readily identified.
Synaptic rearrangements are shown to help sculpt developing retinal circuits,
although the mechanisms involved remain debated. Structural changes in retinal
diseases can also lead to functional rewiring. This poses a major challenge to
retinal repair because it may be necessary to untangle the miswired connections
before reconnecting with proper synaptic partners. Here, we review our current
understanding of the mechanisms that underlie circuit remodeling during retinal
development, and discuss how alterations in connectivity during damage could
impede circuit repair.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.009 
PMCID: PMC4190002
PMID: 25156327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):531-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.006. Epub
2014 Aug 19.

Oscillatory control of bHLH factors in neural progenitors.

Imayoshi I(1), Kageyama R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Virus Research, Kyoto University, Shogoin-Kawahara, Sakyo-ku,
Kyoto 606-8507, Japan; The Hakubi Center, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8501,
Japan; World Premier International Research Initiative-Institute for Integrated
Cell-Material Sciences (WPI-iCeMS), Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan;
Japan Science and Technology Agency, Precursory Research for Embryonic Science
and Technology (PRESTO), 4-1-8 Honcho, Kawaguchi, Saitama, 332-0012, Japan.
Electronic address: iimayosh@virus.kyoto-u.ac.jp. (2)Institute for Virus
Research, Kyoto University, Shogoin-Kawahara, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan;
World Premier International Research Initiative-Institute for Integrated
Cell-Material Sciences (WPI-iCeMS), Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan;
Japan Science and Technology Agency, Core Research for Evolutional Science and
Technology (CREST), 4-1-8 Honcho, Kawaguchi, Saitama, 332-0012, Japan. Electronic
address: rkageyam@virus.kyoto-u.ac.jp.

The mammalian brain consists of a complex ensemble of neurons and glia. Their
production during development and remodeling is tightly controlled by various
regulatory mechanisms in neural progenitor cells (NPCs). Among such regulations, 
basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) factors have key functions in the self-renewal,
multipotency, and fate determination of NPCs. Here, we highlight the importance
of the expression dynamics of bHLH factors in these processes. The oscillatory
expression of multiple bHLH factors is correlated with the multipotent and
self-renewable state, whereas sustained expression of a selected bHLH factor
regulates fate determination. We also discuss potential mechanisms by which a
single bHLH factor can exhibit versatile functions in NPC regulation as well as
the hierarchical structure of the bHLH factor oscillatory network.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.006 
PMID: 25149265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Oct;37(10):539-50. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.004. Epub
2014 Aug 14.

Control of neural circuit formation by leucine-rich repeat proteins.

de Wit J(1), Ghosh A(2).

Author information: 
(1)VIB Center for the Biology of Disease, 3000 Leuven, Belgium; KU Leuven, Center
for Human Genetics, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. Electronic address:
joris.dewit@cme.vib-kuleuven.be. (2)Neuroscience Discovery, F. Hoffman-La Roche, 
4070 Basel, Switzerland.

The function of neural circuits depends on the precise connectivity between
populations of neurons. Increasing evidence indicates that disruptions in
excitatory or inhibitory synapse formation or function lead to
excitation/inhibition (E/I) imbalances and contribute to neurodevelopmental and
psychiatric disorders. Leucine-rich repeat (LRR)-containing surface proteins have
emerged as key organizers of excitatory and inhibitory synapses. Distinct LRR
proteins are expressed in different cell types and interact with key pre- and
postsynaptic proteins. These protein interaction networks allow LRR proteins to
coordinate pre- and postsynaptic elements during synapse formation and
differentiation, pathway-specific synapse development, and synaptic plasticity.
LRR proteins, therefore, play a critical role in organizing synaptic connections 
into functional neural circuits, and their dysfunction may contribute to
neuropsychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.004 
PMCID: PMC4189993
PMID: 25131359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Sep;37(9):467-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.003. Epub 2014
Aug 14.

Basal ganglia: racing to say no.

Noorani I(1), Carpenter RH(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. Electronic address: Imran.noorani@cantab.net.
(2)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.

How we choose one action over another has intrigued neuroscientists for decades. 
Early models of decision-making involved a race between processes representing
alternative choices. To explain behaviour in complex decisions, for example,
where one must cancel an impending action, a Stop unit must also join the race.
Recent neuronal recordings have demonstrated just such a race between Go and Stop
processes in the basal ganglia. This is a landmark advance because it
neurophysiologically justifies the need for a Stop process in such tasks, and
very likely in other behaviours requiring rapid cancellation of impending
actions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.07.003 
PMID: 25131358  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Sep;37(9):465-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.001. Epub 2014
Aug 14.

A matter of trial and error for motor learning.

Pritchett DL(1), Carey MR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Champalimaud Neuroscience Programme, Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown,
Lisbon, Portugal. (2)Champalimaud Neuroscience Programme, Champalimaud Centre for
the Unknown, Lisbon, Portugal. Electronic address:
megan.carey@neuro.fchampalimaud.org.

Comment on
    Elife. 2014;3:e02076.

Climbing fiber inputs to cerebellar Purkinje cells are thought to carry error
signals that can trigger motor learning across multiple time scales. A new study 
by Kimpo et al. finds that the potency of climbing fibers as instructive signals 
for adaptation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex depends on task conditions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.08.001 
PMID: 25131357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Sep;37(9):491-501. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.06.005. Epub
2014 Aug 1.

Sleep, clocks, and synaptic plasticity.

Frank MG(1), Cantera R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. Electronic address:
mgf@mail.med.upenn.edu. (2)Zoology Department, Stockholm University, Stockholm,
Sweden; Instituto de Investigaciones Biológicas Clemente Estable, Montevideo,
Uruguay. Electronic address: rcantera@zoologi.su.se.

Sleep is widely believed to play an essential role in synaptic plasticity.
However, the precise mechanisms governing this presumptive function are largely
unknown. There is also evidence for independent circadian oscillations in
synaptic strength and morphology. Therefore, synaptic changes observed after
sleep reflect interactions between state-dependent (e.g., wake versus sleep) and 
state-independent (circadian) processes. In this review we consider how sleep and
biological clocks influence synaptic plasticity. We discuss these findings in the
context of current plasticity-based theories of sleep function and propose a new 
model that integrates circadian and brain-state influences on synaptic
plasticity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.06.005 
PMCID: PMC4152403
PMID: 25087980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Sep;37(9):480-90. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.06.004. Epub
2014 Jul 14.

A neural microcircuit for cognitive conflict detection and signaling.

Cohen MX(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
Electronic address: mikexcohen@gmail.com.

During human response conflict - competition between multiple conflicting actions
when a mistake could be made - a specific pattern of brain electrical activity
occurs over the medial frontal cortex (MFC), characterized by modulations of
ongoing theta-band (∼6Hz) oscillations and synchronization with task-relevant
brain regions. Despite the replicable and robust findings linking MFC theta to
conflict processing, the significance of MFC theta for how neural microcircuits
actually detect conflict and broadcast that signal is unknown. A neural MFC
microcircuit model is proposed for processing conflict and generating theta
oscillations. The model makes several novel predictions for the causes and
consequences of MFC theta and conflict processing, and may be relevant for
understanding the neural implementations of related cognitive processes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.06.004 
PMID: 25034536  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Sep;37(9):511-22. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.06.002. Epub
2014 Jul 12.

The optogenetic revolution in memory research.

Goshen I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Brain Sciences (ELSC), The Hebrew University,
Givat Ram, Jerusalem 91904 Israel. Electronic address:
Inbal.goshen@elsc.huji.ac.il.

Over the past 5 years, the incorporation of optogenetics into the study of memory
has resulted in a tremendous leap in this field, initiating a revolution in our
understanding of the networks underlying cognitive processes. This review will
present recent breakthroughs in which optogenetics was applied to illuminate,
both literally and figuratively, memory research, and describe the technical
approach, together with the opportunities it offers. Specifically, a large body
of literature has been generated, setting the foundation for deciphering the
spatiotemporal organization of hippocampal-based memory processing and its
underlying mechanisms, as well as the contribution of cortical and amygdalar
regions to cognition.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.06.002 
PMID: 25022518  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Sep;37(9):470-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.009. Epub 2014
Jul 7.

The multifunctional Staufen proteins: conserved roles from neurogenesis to
synaptic plasticity.

Heraud-Farlow JE(1), Kiebler MA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chromosome Biology, Max F. Perutz Laboratories, University of
Vienna, 1030 Vienna, Austria. (2)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology,
Ludwig-Maximilians-University, 80336 Munich, Germany. Electronic address:
michael.kiebler@med.uni-muenchen.de.

Staufen (Stau) proteins belong to a family of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) that
are important for RNA localisation in many organisms. In this review we discuss
recent findings on the conserved role played by Stau during both the early
differentiation of neurons and in the synaptic plasticity of mature neurons.
Recent molecular data suggest mechanisms for how Stau2 regulates mRNA
localisation, mRNA stability, translation, and ribonucleoprotein (RNP) assembly. 
We offer a perspective on how this multifunctional RBP has been adopted to
regulate mRNA localisation under several different cellular and developmental
conditions.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.009 
PMCID: PMC4156307
PMID: 25012293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Sep;37(9):502-10. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.06.003. Epub
2014 Jul 4.

Local versus global scales of organization in auditory cortex.

Kanold PO(1), Nelken I(2), Polley DB(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Institute for Systems Research, University of Maryland,
College Park, MD 20742, USA; Program in Neuroscience and Cognitive Science,
University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, USA. Electronic address:
pkanold@umd.edu. (2)Department of Neurobiology, Silberman Institute of Life
Sciences and the Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Brain Sciences, Hebrew
University, Jerusalem 91904, Israel. Electronic address: israel@cc.huji.ac.il.
(3)Department of Otology and Laryngology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA
02114, USA; Eaton-Peabody Laboratory, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary,
Boston, MA 02114, USA. Electronic address: daniel_polley@meei.harvard.edu.

Topographic organization is a hallmark of sensory cortical organization.
Topography is robust at spatial scales ranging from hundreds of microns to
centimeters, but can dissolve at the level of neighboring neurons or subcellular 
compartments within a neuron. This dichotomous spatial organization is especially
pronounced in the mouse auditory cortex, where an orderly tonotopic map can arise
from heterogeneous frequency tuning between local neurons. Here, we address a
debate surrounding the robustness of tonotopic organization in the auditory
cortex that has persisted in some form for over 40 years. Drawing from various
cortical areas, cortical layers, recording methodologies, and species, we
describe how auditory cortical circuitry can simultaneously support a globally
systematic, yet locally heterogeneous representation of this fundamental sound
property.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.06.003 
PMCID: PMC4152386
PMID: 25002236  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Aug;37(8):409-12. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.06.001.

Collision or convergence?: beliefs and politics in neuroscience discovery,
ethics, and intervention.

Paylor B(1), Longstaff H(2), Rossi F(1), Illes J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Research Centre, University of British Columbia, 2222 Health
Sciences Mall, Vancouver BC, V6T 1Z3, Canada. (2)National Core for Neuroethics,
Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia
Hospital, 2211 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver BC, V6T 2B5, Canada. (3)National Core for
Neuroethics, Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, University of British
Columbia Hospital, 2211 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver BC, V6T 2B5, Canada. Electronic 
address: jilles@mail.ubc.ca.

Discovery and interventions for neurological disorders have a unique capacity to 
galvanize public opinion over issues of access, human rights, decision making,
and the definition of disease. Here we highlight five cases where beliefs and
politics prevailed over evidence and ethics. We examine lessons from them about
the communication of risk and the power of public influence on science, society, 
and policy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.06.001 
PMID: 25086860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Aug;37(8):413-23. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.007. Epub
2014 Jun 23.

Activity-controlled proteolytic cleavage at the synapse.

Sonderegger P(1), Matsumoto-Miyai K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address: Peter.Sonderegger@bioc.uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Neurophysiology, Akita University Graduate School of Medicine,
1-1-1 Hondo, Akita, Akita 010-8543, Japan; Kansai University of Nursing and
Health Sciences, 1456-4 Shizuki, Awaji, Hyogo 656-2131, Japan.

Activity-controlled enzymatic cleavage of proteins on the surface of synaptic
membranes or in the synaptic or perisynaptic interstitial compartment represents 
a direct way to regulate synaptic structure, function, and number. Extracellular 
proteolysis at synapses was initially understood to be plasticity enabling by
freeing synapses from the constraints provided by the extracellular matrix.
However, recent observations indicate that at least part of the extracellular
protein cleavage results in activation of previously cryptic functions that
regulate adaptive changes of synapses and neuronal circuits. Here, we focus on
peptidases with distinct localization and function at synapses combined with
regulation by neuronal and synaptic activity, and evaluate their function in the 
context of developmental and/or adult synaptic plasticity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.007 
PMID: 24969462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Aug;37(8):424-32. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.008. Epub
2014 Jun 23.

Calcium signaling in axon guidance.

Sutherland DJ(1), Pujic Z(1), Goodhill GJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, St Lucia, QLD 4072, 
Australia. (2)Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, St Lucia,
QLD 4072, Australia; School of Mathematics and Physics, The University of
Queensland, St Lucia, QLD 4072, Australia. Electronic address:
g.goodhill@uq.edu.au.

Guidance of axons to their targets in the developing nervous system requires a
myriad of downstream signaling molecules to coordinate growth cone movement. One 
of the most important of these is calcium, and over the past few years many new
insights have been gained into the role of calcium in axon guidance. In this
review we focus on mechanisms of calcium entry into the growth cone and its
downstream effects on both growth cone motility and turning. We particularly
highlight the role of calcium concentrations in determining attractive versus
repulsive responses to graded guidance cues, and their role in guidance by the
morphogen Wnt5a.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.008 
PMID: 24969461  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Aug;37(8):443-54. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.005. Epub
2014 Jun 17.

From molecule to mind: an integrative perspective on odor intensity.

Mainland JD(1), Lundström JN(2), Reisert J(3), Lowe G(3).

Author information: 
(1)Monell Chemical Senses Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA; Department of
Neuroscience, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. Electronic
address: jmainland@monell.org. (2)Monell Chemical Senses Center, Philadelphia,
PA, USA; Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm,
Sweden; Department of Psychology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA,
USA. (3)Monell Chemical Senses Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

A fundamental problem in systems neuroscience is mapping the physical properties 
of a stimulus to perceptual characteristics. In vision, wavelength translates
into color; in audition, frequency translates into pitch. Although odorant
concentration is a key feature of olfactory stimuli, we do not know how
concentration is translated into perceived intensity by the olfactory system. A
variety of neural responses at several levels of processing have been reported to
vary with odorant concentration, suggesting specific coding models. However, it
remains unclear which, if any, of these phenomena underlie the perception of odor
intensity. Here, we provide an overview of current models at different stages of 
olfactory processing, and identify promising avenues for future research.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.005 
PMCID: PMC4119848
PMID: 24950600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Aug;37(8):455-64. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.004. Epub
2014 Jun 11.

Prefrontal cortical regulation of fear learning.

Gilmartin MR(1), Balderston NL(2), Helmstetter FJ(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 2441 E. Hartford 
Ave., Milwaukee, WI 53211, USA; Department of Biomedical Sciences, Marquette
University, 561 N 15th Street, Milwaukee, WI 53233, USA. Electronic address:
marieke.gilmartin@marquette.edu. (2)Department of Psychology, University of
Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 2441 E. Hartford Ave., Milwaukee, WI 53211, USA.

The prefrontal cortex regulates the expression of fear based on previously
learned information. Recently, this brain area has emerged as being crucial in
the initial formation of fear memories, providing new avenues to study the
neurobiology underlying aberrant learning in anxiety disorders. Here we review
the circumstances under which the prefrontal cortex is recruited in the formation
of memory, highlighting relevant work in laboratory animals and human subjects.
We propose that the prefrontal cortex facilitates fear memory through the
integration of sensory and emotional signals and through the coordination of
memory storage in an amygdala-based network.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.004 
PMCID: PMC4119830
PMID: 24929864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Aug;37(8):433-42. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.006. Epub
2014 Jun 11.

Advances in treating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis: insights from
pathophysiological studies.

Vucic S(1), Rothstein JD(2), Kiernan MC(3).

Author information: 
(1)Westmead Clinical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia;
Neurosciences Research Australia, Sydney, Australia. Electronic address:
s.vucic@neura.edu.au. (2)Brain Science Institute, Robert Packard Center for
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Research, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA. (3)Neurosciences Research Australia, Sydney,
Australia; Brain and Mind Research Institute, University of Sydney, Sydney,
Australia.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is the most frequently occurring of the
neuromuscular degenerative disorders, with a median survival time of 3-5 years.
The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying ALS are multifactorial, with a
complex interaction between genetic factors and molecular pathways. To date 16
genes and loci have been associated with ALS, with mutations in
DNA/RNA-regulating genes including the recently described c9orf72 (chromosome 9
open reading frame 72) gene, suggesting an important role for dysregulation of
RNA metabolism in ALS pathogenesis. Further, dysfunction of molecular pathways,
including glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity, has been identified in sporadic and 
familial ALS, indicating the existence of a common pathogenic pathway. These
pathophysiological insights have suggested novel therapeutic approaches,
including stem cell and genetics-based strategies, providing hope for feasible
treatment of ALS.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.006 
PMID: 24927875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jul;37(7):399-407. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.003. Epub
2014 Jun 5.

Molecular mechanisms of activity-dependent changes in dendritic morphology: role 
of RGK proteins.

Ghiretti AE(1), Paradis S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, National Center for Behavioral Genomics, and Volen
Center for Complex Systems, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02454, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, National Center for Behavioral Genomics, and Volen
Center for Complex Systems, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02454, USA.
Electronic address: paradis@brandeis.edu.

The nervous system has the amazing capacity to transform sensory experience from 
the environment into changes in neuronal activity that, in turn, cause
long-lasting alterations in neuronal morphology. Recent findings indicate that,
surprisingly, sensory experience concurrently activates molecular signaling
pathways that both promote and inhibit dendritic complexity. Historically, a
number of positive regulators of activity-dependent dendritic complexity have
been described, whereas the list of identified negative regulators of this
process is much shorter. In recent years, there has been an emerging appreciation
of the importance of the Rad/Rem/Rem2/Gem/Kir (RGK) GTPases as mediators of
activity-dependent structural plasticity. In the following review, we discuss the
traditional view of RGK proteins, as well as our evolving understanding of the
role of these proteins in instructing structural plasticity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.003 
PMCID: PMC4113564
PMID: 24910262  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jul;37(7):370-80. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.001. Epub
2014 Jun 2.

How the brainstem controls orofacial behaviors comprised of rhythmic actions.

Moore JD(1), Kleinfeld D(2), Wang F(3).

Author information: 
(1)Graduate Program in Neurosciences, UC San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA;
Department of Physics, UC San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. Electronic address:
j_moore@alum.mit.edu. (2)Graduate Program in Neurosciences, UC San Diego, La
Jolla, CA 92093, USA; Department of Physics, UC San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093,
USA; Section on Neurobiology, UC San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, 
USA. Electronic address: fan.wang@duke.edu.

Mammals perform a multitude of well-coordinated orofacial behaviors such as
breathing, sniffing, chewing, licking, swallowing, vocalizing, and in rodents,
whisking. The coordination of these actions must occur without fault to prevent
fatal blockages of the airway. Deciphering the neuronal circuitry that controls
even a single action requires understanding the integration of sensory feedback
and executive commands. A far greater challenge is to understand the coordination
of multiple actions. Here, we focus on brainstem circuits that drive rhythmic
orofacial actions. We discuss three neural computational mechanisms that may
enable circuits for different actions to operate without interfering with each
other. We conclude with proposed experimental programs for delineating the neural
control principles that have evolved to coordinate orofacial behaviors.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.001 
PMCID: PMC4100695
PMID: 24890196  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jul;37(7):381-7. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.002. Epub 2014
May 26.

Lost in the jungle: new hurdles for optic nerve axon regeneration.

Pernet V(1), Schwab ME(2).

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, University of Zürich, and Department of Health
Sciences and Technology, ETH Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zürich,
Switzerland. Electronic address: pernet@hifo.uzh.ch. (2)Brain Research Institute,
University of Zürich, and Department of Health Sciences and Technology, ETH
Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland. Electronic address:
schwab@hifo.uzh.ch.

The poor regenerative capacity of injured central nervous system (CNS) axons
leads to permanent neurological deficits after brain, spinal cord, or optic nerve
lesions. In the optic nerve, recent studies showed that stimulation of the
cytokine or mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathways potently
enhances sprouting and regeneration of injured retinal ganglion cell axons in
adult mice, but does not allow the majority of axons to reach their main cerebral
targets. New analyses have revealed axon navigation defects in the optic nerve
and at the optic chiasm under conditions of strong growth stimulation. We propose
that a balanced growth stimulatory treatment will have to be combined with
guidance factors and suppression of local growth inhibitory factors to obtain the
full regeneration of long CNS axonal tracts.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.05.002 
PMID: 24874558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jul;37(7):357-69. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.04.001. Epub
2014 May 14.

Temporal coding organized by coupled alpha and gamma oscillations prioritize
visual processing.

Jensen O(1), Gips B(2), Bergmann TO(2), Bonnefond M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University
Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address:
ole.jensen@donders.ru.nl. (2)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and
Behaviour, Radboud University Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Sensory systems must rely on powerful mechanisms for organizing complex
information. We propose a framework in which inhibitory alpha oscillations limit 
and prioritize neuronal processing. At oscillatory peaks, inhibition prevents
neuronal firing. As the inhibition ramps down within a cycle, a set of neuronal
representations will activate sequentially according to their respective
excitability. Both top-down and bottom-up drives determine excitability; in
particular, spatial attention is a major top-down influence. On a shorter time
scale, fast recurrent inhibition segments representations in slots 10-30 ms
apart, generating gamma-band activity at the population level. The proposed
mechanism serves to convert spatially distributed representations in early visual
regions to a temporal phase code: that is, 'to-do lists' that can be processed
sequentially by downstream regions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.04.001 
PMID: 24836381  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jul;37(7):388-98. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.04.003. Epub
2014 May 4.

Progranulin in neurodegenerative disease.

Petkau TL(1), Leavitt BR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics, Department of Medical
Genetics, University of British Columbia, and Children's and Women's Hospital,
980 West 28th Avenue, Vancouver, BC, Canada V5Z 4H4. (2)Centre for Molecular
Medicine and Therapeutics, Department of Medical Genetics, University of British 
Columbia, and Children's and Women's Hospital, 980 West 28th Avenue, Vancouver,
BC, Canada V5Z 4H4; Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, University of 
British Columbia Hospital, S 192, 2211 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6T
2B5; Brain Research Centre, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T
1Z3, Canada. Electronic address: bleavitt@cmmt.ubc.ca.

Loss-of-function mutations in the progranulin gene are a common cause of familial
frontotemporal dementia (FTD). The purpose of this review is to summarize the
role of progranulin in health and disease, because the field is now poised to
begin examining therapeutics that alter endogenous progranulin levels. We first
review the clinical and neuropathological phenotype of FTD patients carrying
mutations in the progranulin gene, which suggests that progranulin-mediated
neurodegeneration is multifactorial and influenced by other genetic and/or
environmental factors. We then examine evidence for the role of progranulin in
the brain with a focus on mouse model systems. A better understanding of the
complexity of progranulin biology in the brain will help guide the development of
progranulin-modulating therapies for neurodegenerative disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.04.003 
PMID: 24800652  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jun;37(6):343-55. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.04.002. Epub
2014 May 12.

Synaptic plasticity in pathological pain.

Luo C(1), Kuner T(2), Kuner R(3).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurosciences, Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an, 710032,
China. Electronic address: luoceng@fmmu.edu.cn. (2)Institute of Anatomy and Cell 
Biology, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, 69120, Germany. (3)Pharmacology
Institute, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, 69120, Germany. Electronic
address: rohini.kuner@mail.pharma.uni-heidelberg.de.

Chronic pain represents a major challenge to clinical practice and basic science.
Excitatory neurotransmission in somatosensory nociceptive pathways is
predominantly mediated by glutamatergic synapses. A key feature of these synapses
is their ability to adapt synaptic strength in an activity-dependent manner. Such
disease-induced synaptic plasticity is paramount to alterations in synaptic
function and structure. Recent work has recognized that synaptic plasticity at
both excitatory and inhibitory synapses can function as a prime mechanism
underlying pathological pain. In this review, cellular and molecular mechanisms
underlying synaptic plasticity in nociceptive pathways will be reviewed and
discussed. New insights derived from these advances are expected to expedite
development of novel interventional approaches for treatment of pathological
pain.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.04.002 
PMID: 24833289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jun;37(6):301-3. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.04.004. Epub 2014
May 9.

Working together: basal ganglia pathways in action selection.

Friend DM(1), Kravitz AV(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Bethesda,
MD, USA. (2)National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases,
Bethesda, MD, USA; National Institute of Drug Abuse, Baltimore, MD, USA.
Electronic address: lex.kravitz@nih.gov.

Jin, Tecuapetla, and Costa combined in vivo electrophysiology with
optogenetic-identification to examine firing in multiple basal ganglia nuclei
during rapid motor sequences. Their results support a model of basal ganglia
function in which co-activation of the direct and indirect pathways facilitate
appropriate, while inhibiting competing, motor programs.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.04.004 
PMCID: PMC4041812
PMID: 24816402  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jun;37(6):325-33. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.007. Epub
2014 Apr 27.

Tryps and trips: cell trafficking across the 100-year-old blood-brain barrier.

Bentivoglio M(1), Kristensson K(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological and Movement Sciences, University of Verona,
Verona, Italy. Electronic address: marina.bentivoglio@univr.it. (2)Department of 
Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

One hundred years ago, Edwin E. Goldmann discovered the blood-brain barrier (BBB)
using trypan dyes. These dyes were developed and named by Paul Ehrlich during his
search for drugs to kill African trypanosomes (extracellular parasites that cause
sleeping sickness) while sparing host cells. For Ehrlich, this was the first
strategy based on the 'chemotherapy' concept he had introduced. The discovery of 
the BBB revealed, however, the difficulties in drug delivery to the brain.
Mechanisms by which parasites enter, dwell, and exit the brain currently provide 
novel views on cell trafficking across the BBB. These mechanisms also highlight
the role of pericytes and endocytosis regulation in BBB functioning and in
disrupted BBB gating, which may be involved in the pathogenesis of
neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.007 
PMCID: PMC4045197
PMID: 24780507  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jun;37(6):304-14. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.006. Epub
2014 Apr 21.

Dynamic adaptation of large-scale brain networks in response to acute stressors.

Hermans EJ(1), Henckens MJ(2), Joëls M(3), Fernández G(4).

Author information: 
(1)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University
Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 6525 EN, The Netherlands; Department for Cognitive
Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 6525 EN, The
Netherlands. Electronic address: erno.hermans@donders.ru.nl. (2)Donders Institute
for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 
6525 EN, The Netherlands; Department of Translational Neuroscience, Brain Center 
Rudolf Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, 3584 CG Utrecht, The
Netherlands. (3)Department of Translational Neuroscience, Brain Center Rudolf
Magnus, University Medical Center Utrecht, 3584 CG Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University
Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 6525 EN, The Netherlands; Department for Cognitive
Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 6525 EN, The
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):403-4.
    Trends Neurosci. 2015 Jul;38(7):401-2.

Stress initiates an intricate response that affects diverse cognitive and
affective domains, with the goal of improving survival chances in the light of
changing environmental challenges. Here, we bridge animal data at cellular and
systems levels with human work on brain-wide networks to propose a framework
describing how stress-related neuromodulators trigger dynamic shifts in network
balance, enabling an organism to comprehensively reallocate its neural resources 
according to cognitive demands. We argue that exposure to acute stress prompts a 
reallocation of resources to a salience network, promoting fear and vigilance, at
the cost of an executive control network. After stress subsides, resource
allocation to these two networks reverses, which normalizes emotional reactivity 
and enhances higher-order cognitive processes important for long-term survival.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.006 
PMID: 24766931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jun;37(6):334-42. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.005. Epub
2014 Apr 15.

Thinking out of the dish: what to learn about cortical development using
pluripotent stem cells.

van den Ameele J(1), Tiberi L(2), Vanderhaeghen P(3), Espuny-Camacho I(4).

Author information: 
(1)Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB), Institute for Interdisciplinary Research 
(IRIBHM), and ULB Institute of Neuroscience (UNI), B-1070 Brussels, Belgium;
Department of Neurology, Ghent University Hospital, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(2)Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB), Institute for Interdisciplinary Research 
(IRIBHM), and ULB Institute of Neuroscience (UNI), B-1070 Brussels, Belgium.
(3)Université Libre de Bruxelles (ULB), Institute for Interdisciplinary Research 
(IRIBHM), and ULB Institute of Neuroscience (UNI), B-1070 Brussels, Belgium;
WELBIO, B-1070 Brussels, Belgium; VIB Center for the Biology of Disease, 3000
Leuven, Belgium; Center of Human Genetics, KU Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.
Electronic address: pierre.vanderhaeghen@ulb.ac.be. (4)Université Libre de
Bruxelles (ULB), Institute for Interdisciplinary Research (IRIBHM), and ULB
Institute of Neuroscience (UNI), B-1070 Brussels, Belgium; VIB Center for the
Biology of Disease, 3000 Leuven, Belgium; Center of Human Genetics, KU Leuven,
3000 Leuven, Belgium.

The development of the cerebral cortex requires the tightly coordinated
generation of dozens of neuronal subtypes that will populate specific layers and 
areas. Recent studies have revealed how pluripotent stem cells (PSC), whether of 
mouse or human origin, can differentiate into a wide range of cortical neurons in
vitro, which can integrate appropriately into the brain following in vivo
transplantation. These models are largely artificial but recapitulate a
substantial fraction of the complex temporal and regional patterning events that 
occur during in vivo corticogenesis. Here, we review these findings with emphasis
on the new perspectives that they have brought for understanding of cortical
development, evolution, and diseases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.005 
PMID: 24745669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jun;37(6):315-24. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.004. Epub
2014 Apr 13.

Parkin and PINK1: much more than mitophagy.

Scarffe LA(1), Stevens DA(2), Dawson VL(3), Dawson TM(4).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroregeneration and Stem Cell Programs, Institute for Cell Engineering,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Solomon H.
Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Adrienne Helis Malvin Medical Research Foundation, New 
Orleans, LA 70130-2685, USA. (2)Neuroregeneration and Stem Cell Programs,
Institute for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
(3)Neuroregeneration and Stem Cell Programs, Institute for Cell Engineering,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Solomon H.
Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Department of Physiology, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Department of Neurology, Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Adrienne Helis
Malvin Medical Research Foundation, New Orleans, LA 70130-2685, USA. Electronic
address: vdawson@jhmi.edu. (4)Neuroregeneration and Stem Cell Programs, Institute
for Cell Engineering, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 
21205, USA; Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Department of Neurology,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Department
of Pharmacology and Molecular Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA; Adrienne Helis Malvin Medical Research
Foundation, New Orleans, LA 70130-2685, USA. Electronic address:
tdawson@jhmi.edu.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that causes a
debilitating movement disorder. Although most cases of PD appear to be sporadic, 
rare Mendelian forms have provided tremendous insight into disease pathogenesis. 
Accumulating evidence suggests that impaired mitochondria underpin PD pathology. 
In support of this theory, data from multiple PD models have linked Phosphatase
and tensin homolog (PTEN)-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1) and parkin, two
recessive PD genes, in a common pathway impacting mitochondrial health, prompting
a flurry of research to identify their mitochondrial targets. Recent work has
focused on the role of PINK1 and parkin in mediating mitochondrial autophagy
(mitophagy); however, emerging evidence casts parkin and PINK1 as key players in 
multiple domains of mitochondrial health and quality control.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.004 
PMCID: PMC4075431
PMID: 24735649  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Trends Neurosci. 2014 May;37(5):289-300. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.002. Epub
2014 Apr 11.

Detecting interaural time differences and remodeling their representation.

Vonderschen K(1), Wagner H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Hearing and Communication Research, CLINTEC, Karolinska Institute, 
Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: katrin.vonderschen@ki.se. (2)Institut für 
Biologie II, Rheinisch-Westfälische Technische Hochschule (RWTH Aachen
University), Aachen, Germany.

Interaural time differences (ITDs) represent an important cue in sound
localization and auditory scene analysis. To assess this cue the auditory system 
internally delays binaural inputs to compensate for the outer delay, before
neurons in the brainstem detect the coincident arrival of the inputs from the two
ears. Different origins of internal delays have been controversially discussed
and have given rise to conflicting interpretations of the ITD representation
ensuing from coincidence detection. Yet, recent findings indicate that ITD
representations undergo substantial transformations or remodeling after the
detection step. Here we treat the detection step separately from remodeling, and 
explain why a similar representation of ITD across species may exist in the
forebrain despite differences in detection and representation in the midbrain.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.002 
PMID: 24726910  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Trends Neurosci. 2014 May;37(5):264-78. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.011. Epub
2014 Apr 9.

Zebrafish models for translational neuroscience research: from tank to bedside.

Stewart AM(1), Braubach O(2), Spitsbergen J(3), Gerlai R(4), Kalueff AV(5).

Author information: 
(1)ZENEREI Institute and the International Zebrafish Neuroscience Research
Consortium (ZNRC), 309 Palmer Court, Slidell, LA 70458, USA; Department of
Neuroscience, University of Pittsburgh, A210 Langley Hall, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, 
USA. (2)Center for Functional Connectomics, Korea Institute of Science and
Technology, Hwarangno 14-gil 5, Seoul, 136791, Republic of Korea. (3)Department
of Microbiology, Oregon State University, Nash Hall 220 Corvallis, OR 97331, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Toronto at Mississauga, 3359
Mississauga Road, N Mississauga, Ontario L5L 1C6, Canada. (5)ZENEREI Institute
and the International Zebrafish Neuroscience Research Consortium (ZNRC), 309
Palmer Court, Slidell, LA 70458, USA. Electronic address: avkalueff@gmail.com.

The zebrafish (Danio rerio) is emerging as a new important species for studying
mechanisms of brain function and dysfunction. Focusing on selected central
nervous system (CNS) disorders (brain cancer, epilepsy, and anxiety) and using
them as examples, we discuss the value of zebrafish models in translational
neuroscience. We further evaluate the contribution of zebrafish to neuroimaging, 
circuit level, and drug discovery research. Outlining the role of zebrafish in
modeling a wide range of human brain disorders, we also summarize recent
applications and existing challenges in this field. Finally, we emphasize the
potential of zebrafish models in behavioral phenomics and high-throughput
genetic/small molecule screening, which is critical for CNS drug discovery and
identifying novel candidate genes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.011 
PMCID: PMC4039217
PMID: 24726051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Trends Neurosci. 2014 May;37(5):245-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.003. Epub 2014
Apr 1.

An epigenetic way to forget those painful moments.

Diegelmann S(1), Sprecher SG(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Institute of Zoology, Chemin du Musée 10, CH-1700
Fribourg, Switzerland. (2)Department of Biology, Institute of Zoology, Chemin du 
Musée 10, CH-1700 Fribourg, Switzerland. Electronic address:
simon.sprecher@unifr.ch.

Traumatic experience can be overwhelming, thus erasing associated memories is
desirable. Although exposure-based and reconsolidation methods have been
developed for recently acquired associations, treatments to modify more distant
memories are rare. Focusing on HDAC2 inhibition during reconsolidation, Gräff and
colleagues recently demonstrated an epigenetic means to attenuate remote fear
memory.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.003 
PMID: 24703708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Trends Neurosci. 2014 May;37(5):256-63. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.010. Epub
2014 Mar 31.

Telomere shortening in neurological disorders: an abundance of unanswered
questions.

Eitan E(1), Hutchison ER(1), Mattson MP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging Intramural Research
Program, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. (2)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National
Institute on Aging Intramural Research Program, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA;
Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. Electronic address: mark.mattson@nih.gov.

Telomeres, ribonucleoprotein complexes that cap eukaryotic chromosomes, typically
shorten in leukocytes with aging. Aging is a primary risk factor for
neurodegenerative disease (ND), and a common assumption has arisen that leukocyte
telomere length (LTL) can serve as a predictor of neurological disease. However, 
the evidence for shorter LTL in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's patients is
inconsistent. The diverse causes of telomere shortening may explain variability
in LTL between studies and individuals. Additional research is needed to
determine whether neuronal and glial telomeres shorten during aging and in
neurodegenerative disorders, if and how LTL is related to brain cell telomere
shortening, and whether telomere shortening plays a causal role in or exacerbates
neurological disorders.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.010 
PMCID: PMC4008659
PMID: 24698125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Trends Neurosci. 2014 May;37(5):247-55. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.001. Epub
2014 Mar 30.

Exercise, APOE genotype, and the evolution of the human lifespan.

Raichlen DA(1), Alexander GE(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Anthropology, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA.
Electronic address: raichlen@email.arizona.edu. (2)Department of Psychology,
University of Arizona, Tucson AZ 85721, USA; Evelyn F. McKnight Brain Institute, 
University of Arizona, Tucson AZ 85721, USA; Arizona Alzheimer's Consortium,
Phoenix AZ 85006, USA; Neuroscience and Physiological Sciences Graduate
Interdisciplinary Programs, University of Arizona, Tucson AZ 85721, USA.

Humans have exceptionally long lifespans compared with other mammals. However,
our longevity evolved when our ancestors had two copies of the apolipoprotein E
(APOE) ɛ4 allele, a genotype that leads to a high risk of Alzheimer's disease
(AD), cardiovascular disease, and increased mortality. How did human aging evolve
within this genetic constraint? Drawing from neuroscience, anthropology, and
brain-imaging research, we propose the hypothesis that the evolution of increased
physical activity approximately 2 million years ago served to reduce the amyloid 
plaque and vascular burden of APOE ɛ4, relaxing genetic constraints on aging.
This multidisciplinary approach links human evolution with health and provides a 
complementary perspective on aging and neurodegenerative disease that may help
identify key mechanisms and targets for intervention.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.03.001 
PMCID: PMC4066890
PMID: 24690272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Trends Neurosci. 2014 May;37(5):279-88. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.009. Epub
2014 Mar 24.

Breakdown in REM sleep circuitry underlies REM sleep behavior disorder.

Peever J(1), Luppi PH(2), Montplaisir J(3).

Author information: 
(1)Systems Neurobiology Laboratory, Departments of Cell and Systems Biology and
Physiology, University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic address:
john.peever@utoronto.ca. (2)Sleep Team, Center of Neuroscience of Lyon, UMR 5292 
CNRS/U1028 INSERM, University of Lyon, Lyon, France. (3)Center for Advanced
Research in Sleep Medicine, Hôpital du Sacré-Coeur de Montréal, Université de
Montréal Québec, Montréal, QC Canada.

During rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, skeletal muscles are almost paralyzed.
However, in REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), which is a rare neurological
condition, muscle atonia is lost, leaving afflicted individuals free to enact
their dreams. Although this may sound innocuous, it is not, given that patients
with RBD often injure themselves or their bed-partner. A major concern in RBD is 
that it precedes, in 80% of cases, development of synucleinopathies, such as
Parkinson's disease (PD). This link suggests that neurodegenerative processes
initially target the circuits controlling REM sleep. Clinical and basic
neuroscience evidence indicates that RBD results from breakdown of the network
underlying REM sleep atonia. This finding is important because it opens new
avenues for treating RBD and understanding its link to neurodegenerative
disorders.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.009 
PMID: 24673896  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):200-10. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.002. Epub
2014 Mar 20.

Illicit dopamine transients: reconciling actions of abused drugs.

Covey DP(1), Roitman MF(2), Garris PA(3).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Illinois State University, Normal, IL
61790-4120, USA. (2)Department of Psychology, University of Illinois at Chicago, 
Chicago, IL 60607-7137, USA. (3)School of Biological Sciences, Illinois State
University, Normal, IL 61790-4120, USA. Electronic address: pagarri@ilstu.edu.

Phasic increases in brain dopamine are required for cue-directed reward seeking. 
Although compelling within the framework of appetitive behavior, the view that
illicit drugs hijack reward circuits by hyperactivating these dopamine transients
is inconsistent with established psychostimulant pharmacology. However, recent
work reclassifying amphetamine (AMPH), cocaine, and other addictive
dopamine-transporter inhibitors (DAT-Is) supports transient hyperactivation as a 
unifying hypothesis of abused drugs. We argue here that reclassification also
identifies generating burst firing by dopamine neurons as a keystone action.
Unlike natural rewards, which are processed by sensory systems, drugs act
directly on the brain. Consequently, to mimic natural rewards and exploit reward 
circuits, dopamine transients must be elicited de novo. Of available drug
targets, only burst firing achieves this essential outcome.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.002 
PMCID: PMC4064368
PMID: 24656971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):219-27. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.006. Epub
2014 Mar 11.

Stress and alcohol interactions: animal studies and clinical significance.

Spanagel R(1), Noori HR(1), Heilig M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Psychopharmacology, Central Institute of Mental Health (CIMH),
University of Heidelberg, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Germany. (2)Laboratory of
Clinical and Translational Studies, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
Alcoholism (NIAAA), Bethesda, USA.

Alcohol is frequently consumed for stress relief, but the individual determinants
and the temporal course of stress-induced alcohol use are not well understood.
Preclinical studies may help shed light on these factors. We synthesize here the 
findings from numerous rodent studies of stress and alcohol interactions.
Stress-induced alcohol consumption is age-dependent, has a high genetic load, and
results from an interaction of the stress and reward systems. Specifically,
glucocorticoids, acting within the nucleus accumbens (NAc), are important
mediators of this stress-induced alcohol intake. In addition, increased
activation of the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) system within the
extended amygdala appears to mediate stress-induced relapse. Finally, these
preclinical studies have helped to identify several attractive targets for novel 
treatments of alcohol abuse and addiction.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.006 
PMID: 24636458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):211-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.003. Epub 2014
Mar 11.

Kaleidoscopic protein-protein interactions in the life and death of ataxin-1: new
strategies against protein aggregation.

de Chiara C(1), Pastore A(2).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Medical Research (NIMR), Medical Research Council
(MRC), The Ridgeway, London NW7 1AA, UK. (2)Department of Clinical Neurosciences,
King's College London, Denmark Hill Campus, London, UK. Electronic address:
apastor@nimr.mrc.ac.uk.

Understanding how proteins protect themselves from aberrant aggregation is of
primary interest for understanding basic biology, protein biochemistry, and human
disease. We discuss the paradigmatic example of ataxin-1 (Atx1), the protein
responsible for neurodegenerative spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). This
disease is part of the increasing family of pathologies caused by protein
aggregation and misfolding. We discuss the importance of protein-protein
interactions not only in the nonpathological function of Atx1 but also in
protecting the protein from aggregation and misfolding. The lessons learned from 
Atx1 may lead to a more general understanding of the cell's protective strategies
against aggregation. The obtained knowledge may suggest a new perspective for
designing specific therapeutic strategies for the cure of misfolding diseases.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.003 
PMCID: PMC3988977
PMID: 24636457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):191-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.007. Epub 2014
Mar 11.

The other side of the histamine H3 receptor.

Ellenbroek BA(1), Ghiabi B(2).

Author information: 
(1)Victoria University of Wellington, Wellington, New Zealand. Electronic
address: Bart.ellenbroek@vuw.ac.nz. (2)University of Tehran, Tehran, Iran.

Although histamine H3 receptors are predominantly known as presynaptic receptors,
regulating the release of neurotransmitters such as dopamine, acetylcholine, and 
histamine, in the striatal complex the vast majority of these receptors are
actually located on the other side, in other words postsynaptically. Given their 
strategic location, they can crucially affect signaling throughout the basal
ganglia. We describe the anatomy and function of H3 receptors within the basal
ganglia with a specific focus on their colocalization with dopamine D1 and D2
receptors. Because the basal ganglia are centrally involved in several major
neurological and psychiatric disorders, we also discuss the therapeutic potential
of drugs targeting H3 receptors in the treatment of Parkinson disease (PD),
schizophrenia, and addiction.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.007 
PMID: 24636456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):228-42. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.008. Epub
2014 Mar 13.

Diversity of astroglial functions alludes to subcellular specialisation.

Rusakov DA(1), Bard L(2), Stewart MG(3), Henneberger C(4).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurology, University College London (UCL), Queen Square, London,
WC1 3BG, UK. Electronic address: d.rusakov@ucl.ac.uk. (2)Institute of Neurology, 
University College London (UCL), Queen Square, London, WC1 3BG, UK. Electronic
address: l.bard@ucl.ac.uk. (3)The Open University, Walton Hall, Milton Keynes,
MK7 6AA, UK. (4)Institute of Neurology, University College London (UCL), Queen
Square, London, WC1 3BG, UK; Institute of Cellular Neuroscience, University of
Bonn, Sigmund-Freud-Strasse 25, 53105 Bonn, Germany. Electronic address:
christian.henneberger@ukb.uni-bonn.de.

Rapid signal exchange between astroglia and neurons has emerged as an essential
element of neural circuits of the brain. However, the increasing variety of
mechanisms contributing to this signalling appears to be facing a conceptual
stalemate. The communication medium of astroglia involves intracellular [Ca(2+)] 
waves, which until recently have been associated with slow, global [Ca(2+)]
rises. How such a uniform trigger could handle fast and diverse molecular
messages remains unexplained. Recent studies have, however, revealed a variety of
apparently independent Ca(2+) activities within individual astrocytic
compartments, also indicating the prevalence of subcellular segregation for some 
signalling mechanisms. These signs of intracellular compartmentalisation might
provide the key to the multitude of adaptive roles played by astroglia.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.008 
PMID: 24631033  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):190. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.005. Epub 2014
Mar 11.

Response to Watkins and Hutchinson.

Smith AM(1), Dragunow M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology, Centre for Brain
Research, Gravida National Centre for Growth and Development, University of
Auckland, Auckland 1023, New Zealand. (2)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical 
Pharmacology, Centre for Brain Research, Gravida National Centre for Growth and
Development, University of Auckland, Auckland 1023, New Zealand. Electronic
address: m.dragunow@auckland.ac.nz.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):189-90.
    Trends Neurosci. 2014 Mar;37(3):125-35.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.005 
PMID: 24630097  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):189-90. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.004. Epub
2014 Mar 4.

A concern on comparing 'apples' and 'oranges' when differences between microglia 
used in human and rodent studies go far, far beyond simply species: comment on
Smith and Dragunow.

Watkins LR(1), Hutchinson MR(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, and the Center for Neuroscience,
University of Colorado at Boulder, Boulder, CO, USA. Electronic address:
linda.watkins@colorado.edu. (2)Discipline of Physiology, School of Medical
Sciences, University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
Electronic address: mark.hutchinson@adelaide.edu.au.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):190.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2014 Mar;37(3):125-35.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.02.004 
PMID: 24612510  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Mar;37(3):169-77. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.01.003. Epub
2014 Feb 7.

GABAergic interneuron transplants to study development and treat disease.

Tyson JA(1), Anderson SA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New
York, NY 10021, USA; Department of Psychiatry, Children's Hospital of
Philadelphia and University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 
19104, USA. (2)Department of Psychiatry, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia and 
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
Electronic address: sande@mail.med.upenn.edu.

Advances in stem cell technology have engendered keen interest in cell-based
therapies for neurological disorders. Postnatal engraftments of most neuronal
precursors result in little cellular migration, a crucial prerequisite for
transplants to integrate within the host circuitry. This may occur because most
neurons migrate along substrates, such as radial glial processes, that are not
abundant in adults. However, cortical GABAergic interneurons migrate tangentially
from the subcortical forebrain into the cerebral cortex. Accordingly, transplants
of cortical interneuron precursors migrate extensively after engraftment into a
variety of CNS tissues, where they can become synaptically connected with host
circuitry. We review how this remarkable ability to integrate post-transplant is 
being applied to the development of cell-based therapies for a variety of CNS
disorders.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.01.003 
PMCID: PMC4396846
PMID: 24508416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Mar;37(3):178-87. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.01.002. Epub
2014 Jan 31.

Computational principles of microcircuits for visual object processing in the
macaque temporal cortex.

Hirabayashi T(1), Miyashita Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, The University of Tokyo School of Medicine, 7-3-1
Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan. (2)Department of Physiology, The
University of Tokyo School of Medicine, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033,
Japan; Core Research for Evolutional Science and Technology (CREST), Japan
Science and Technology Agency (JST), Kawaguchi, Saitama 332-0012, Japan;
Department of Brain Sciences, Center for Novel Science Initiatives, National
Institutes of Natural Sciences, Toranomon 4-3-13, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 105-0001,
Japan. Electronic address: yasushi_miyashita@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

Understanding the principles of neuronal computation that underlie our cognitive 
abilities is a fundamental goal of neuroscience. Microcircuits are thought to be 
computational units embedded in a brain-wide neuronal network. Recent progress in
experimental and analytical techniques has enabled the exploration of information
flow in operating microcircuits of behaving monkeys. Accumulating evidence
demonstrates that crucial transformations of neuronal codes for the
representation and memory retrieval of visual objects occur in cortical
microcircuits. Particularly, microcircuit comparisons across cortical areas
provide novel principles for object processing, in which precursor codes for
object features are constructed in a lower-order area before prevalence in a
higher-order area. We review recent findings on microcircuit operations in
macaque temporal cortex that enable object processing, and discuss future
research directions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.01.002 
PMID: 24491832  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Mar;37(3):159-68. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.01.001. Epub
2014 Jan 30.

Developmental roles of brain histamine.

Panula P(1), Sundvik M(2), Karlstedt K(3).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Center, University of Helsinki, Haartmaninkatu 8, 00290 Helsinki,
Finland; Institute of Biomedicine, Anatomy, University of Helsinki,
Haartmaninkatu 8, 00290 Helsinki, Finland. Electronic address:
pertti.panula@helsinki.fi. (2)Neuroscience Center, University of Helsinki,
Haartmaninkatu 8, 00290 Helsinki, Finland; Institute of Biomedicine, Anatomy,
University of Helsinki, Haartmaninkatu 8, 00290 Helsinki, Finland. (3)Institute
of Biomedicine, Physiology, University of Helsinki, Haartmaninkatu 8, 00290
Helsinki, Finland.

Histamine appears early during brain development, has been shown to regulate
fetal and adult brain-derived stem cells in a receptor type-dependent manner, and
has widespread actions on systems involved in arousal and movement. Developmental
studies in both rodents and zebrafish have elucidated the spatiotemporal
patterning of the histaminergic system and, in zebrafish, have revealed the
mechanisms whereby histamine regulates the number of hypocretin/orexin (hcrt)
neurons, which in turn may regulate the number of histaminergic cells. Recent
demonstrations of increased numbers of histaminergic neurons in patients with
narcolepsy highlight the importance, for our understanding of both normal and
pathological brain function, of understanding these interactions. Here, we review
recent research into the developmental roles of histamine and suggest key areas
for future research.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2014.01.001 
PMID: 24486025  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Mar;37(3):136-45. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.12.003. Epub
2014 Jan 30.

What do grid cells contribute to place cell firing?

Bush D(1), Barry C(2), Burgess N(3).

Author information: 
(1)University College London (UCL) Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, London,
WC1N 3AR, UK; UCL Institute of Neurology, London, WC1N 3BG, UK. Electronic
address: drdanielbush@gmail.com. (2)UCL Department of Cell and Developmental
Biology, London, WC1E 6BT, UK. (3)University College London (UCL) Institute of
Cognitive Neuroscience, London, WC1N 3AR, UK; UCL Institute of Neurology, London,
WC1N 3BG, UK. Electronic address: n.burgess@ucl.ac.uk.

The unitary firing fields of hippocampal place cells are commonly assumed to be
generated by input from entorhinal grid cell modules with differing spatial
scales. Here, we review recent research that brings this assumption into doubt.
Instead, we propose that place cell spatial firing patterns are determined by
environmental sensory inputs, including those representing the distance and
direction to environmental boundaries, while grid cells provide a complementary
self-motion related input that contributes to maintaining place cell firing. In
this view, grid and place cell firing patterns are not successive stages of a
processing hierarchy, but complementary and interacting representations that work
in combination to support the reliable coding of large-scale space.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.12.003 
PMCID: PMC3945817
PMID: 24485517  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Mar;37(3):146-58. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.12.002. Epub
2014 Jan 21.

Opening paths to novel analgesics: the role of potassium channels in chronic
pain.

Tsantoulas C(1), McMahon SB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1PD, UK.
Electronic address: c.tsantoulas@gmail.com. (2)Neurorestoration Group, Wolfson
Centre for Age-Related Diseases, King's College London, London SE1 1UL, UK.

Chronic pain is associated with abnormal excitability of the somatosensory system
and remains poorly treated in the clinic. Potassium (K⁺) channels are crucial
determinants of neuronal activity throughout the nervous system. Opening of these
channels facilitates a hyperpolarizing K⁺ efflux across the plasma membrane that 
counteracts inward ion conductance and therefore limits neuronal excitability.
Accumulating research has highlighted a prominent involvement of K⁺ channels in
nociceptive processing, particularly in determining peripheral hyperexcitability.
We review salient findings from expression, pharmacological, and genetic studies 
that have untangled a hitherto undervalued contribution of K⁺ channels in
maladaptive pain signaling. These emerging data provide a framework to explain
enigmatic pain syndromes and to design novel pharmacological treatments for these
debilitating states.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.12.002 
PMCID: PMC3945816
PMID: 24461875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Mar;37(3):125-35. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.12.001. Epub
2014 Jan 2.

The human side of microglia.

Smith AM(1), Dragunow M(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology, University of Auckland, 
1023, Auckland, New Zealand; Centre for Brain Research, University of Auckland,
1023, Auckland, New Zealand; Gravida National Centre for Growth and Development, 
University of Auckland, 1023, Auckland, New Zealand. (2)Department of
Pharmacology and Clinical Pharmacology, University of Auckland, 1023, Auckland,
New Zealand; Centre for Brain Research, University of Auckland, 1023, Auckland,
New Zealand; Gravida National Centre for Growth and Development, University of
Auckland, 1023, Auckland, New Zealand. Electronic address:
m.dragunow@auckland.ac.nz.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):190.
    Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):189-90.

Despite increasing evidence of major differences between rodent and human immune 
and neurological function, relatively few biomedical studies are performed with
human cells. This review takes the example of neuroimmunology research and the
microglia cell type to illustrate the emerging differences between rodent and
human research findings. Microglia are involved in disease states and normal
aging processes of the adult human brain. Although rodent microglia are often
used in studies investigating microglial function, there are important
differences between rodent microglia and their human counterparts. To maximise
the relevance of our basic research to the clinical setting, it is necessary to
integrate more human-based research into current biomedical research practise and
we discuss practical steps towards this aim.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.12.001 
PMID: 24388427  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Feb;37(2):66-76. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.006. Epub 2014
Jan 8.

Stuck in traffic: an emerging theme in diseases of the nervous system.

Neefjes J(1), van der Kant R(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cell Biology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, 1066CX Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: j.neefjes@nki.nl. (2)Department of Cellular and 
Molecular Medicine, University of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California
92093, USA. Electronic address: rikkant@gmail.com.

The past decade has seen an explosion of DNA sequencing activities and many
mutations and genetic variances underlying neurological and neurodegenerative
diseases have been determined. This wealth of genetic data is now placed in
molecular pathways revealing the nodes that underlie the disrupted processes.
Many mutations in neurological diseases affect proteins controlling
endosomal/lysosomal transport. Although the age of onset of these diseases range 
from juvenile [i.e., Niemann-Pick type C (NPC) and Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT)
disease] to late onset (Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease), deregulation of
endosomal transport is a common theme. This review summarizes how elucidating the
genetic basis for the various neurological diseases has advanced our
understanding of the endo-lysosomal system and why the various mutations all
translate into similar disease phenotypes.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.006 
PMID: 24411104  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Feb;37(2):106-23. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.001. Epub
2013 Dec 31.

Molecular neuroanatomy: a generation of progress.

Pollock JD(1), Wu DY(2), Satterlee JS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Neurobiology and Behavioral Research, Genetics and Molecular
Neurobiology Research Branch, National Institute on Drug Abuse/National
Institutes of Health (NIH), 6001 Executive Boulevard, Bethesda, MD 20850, USA.
Electronic address: jpollock@mail.nih.gov. (2)Division of Basic Neurobiology and 
Behavioral Research, Genetics and Molecular Neurobiology Research Branch,
National Institute on Drug Abuse/National Institutes of Health (NIH), 6001
Executive Boulevard, Bethesda, MD 20850, USA.

The neuroscience research landscape has changed dramatically over the past
decade. Specifically, an impressive array of new tools and technologies have been
generated, including but not limited to: brain gene expression atlases,
genetically encoded proteins to monitor and manipulate neuronal activity, and new
methods for imaging and mapping circuits. However, despite these technological
advances, several significant challenges must be overcome to enable a better
understanding of brain function and to develop cell type-targeted therapeutics to
treat brain disorders. This review provides an overview of some of the tools and 
technologies currently being used to advance the field of molecular neuroanatomy,
and also discusses emerging technologies that may enable neuroscientists to
address these crucial scientific challenges over the coming decade.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.001 
PMCID: PMC3946666
PMID: 24388609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Feb;37(2):85-94. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.003. Epub 2014
Jan 2.

Dopaminergic basis of salience dysregulation in psychosis.

Winton-Brown TT(1), Fusar-Poli P(2), Ungless MA(3), Howes OD(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College
London, De Crespigny Park, SE58AF London, UK. Electronic address:
toby.winton-brown@kcl.ac.uk. (2)Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of
Psychiatry, King's College London, De Crespigny Park, SE58AF London, UK; OASIS
Prodromal Service, South London and Maudsley (SLaM) National Health Service (NHS)
Foundation Trust, London, UK. (3)Medical Research Council Clinical Sciences
Centre, Imperial College London, London, UK. (4)Department of Psychosis Studies, 
Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, De Crespigny Park, SE58AF London,
UK; Medical Research Council Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College London,
London, UK.

Disrupted salience processing is proposed as central in linking dysregulated
dopamine function with psychotic symptoms. Several strands of evidence are now
converging in support of this model. Animal studies show that midbrain dopamine
neurons are activated by unexpected salient events. In psychotic patients,
neurochemical studies have confirmed subcortical striatal dysregulation of
dopaminergic neurotransmission, whereas functional magnetic resonance imaging
(fMRI) studies of salience tasks have located alterations in prefrontal and
striatal dopaminergic projection fields. At the clinical level, this may account 
for the altered sense of meaning and significance that predates the onset of
psychosis. This review draws these different strands of evidence together in
support of an emerging understanding of how dopamine dysregulation may lead to
aberrant salience and psychotic symptoms.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.003 
PMID: 24388426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Feb;37(2):95-105. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.005. Epub
2013 Dec 30.

A de novo convergence of autism genetics and molecular neuroscience.

Krumm N(1), O'Roak BJ(1), Shendure J(1), Eichler EE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(2)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA;
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Washington School of Medicine,
Seattle, WA, USA. Electronic address: eee@gs.washington.edu.

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and intellectual disability (ID) are
neurodevelopmental disorders with large genetic components, but identification of
pathogenic genes has proceeded slowly because hundreds of loci are involved. New 
exome sequencing technology has identified novel rare variants and has found that
sporadic cases of ASD/ID are enriched for disruptive de novo mutations. Targeted 
large-scale resequencing studies have confirmed the significance of specific
loci, including chromodomain helicase DNA binding protein 8 (CHD8), sodium
channel, voltage-gated, type II, alpha subunit (SCN2A), dual specificity
tyrosine-phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1A (DYRK1A), and catenin
(cadherin-associated protein), beta 1, 88 kDa (CTNNB1, beta-catenin). We review
recent studies and suggest that they have led to a convergence on three
functional pathways: (i) chromatin remodeling; (ii) wnt signaling during
development; and (iii) synaptic function. These pathways and genes significantly 
expand the neurobiological targets for study, and suggest a path for future
genetic and functional studies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.005 
PMCID: PMC4077788
PMID: 24387789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Feb;37(2):77-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.004. Epub 2013
Dec 19.

Aging in the olfactory system.

Mobley AS(1), Rodriguez-Gil DJ(1), Imamura F(2), Greer CA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 
06520, USA. (2)Department of Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine,
New Haven, CT 06520, USA; Department of Pharmacology, Pennsylvania State
University College of Medicine, Hershey, PA 17033, USA. (3)Department of
Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520, USA;
Department of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06520, USA. Electronic address: charles.greer@yale.edu.

With advancing age, the ability of humans to detect and discriminate odors
declines. In light of the rapid progress in analyzing molecular and structural
correlates of developing and adult olfactory systems, the paucity of information 
available on the aged olfactory system is startling. A rich literature documents 
the decline of olfactory acuity in aged humans, but the underlying cellular and
molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. Using animal models, preliminary work
is beginning to uncover differences between young and aged rodents that may help 
address the deficits seen in humans, but many questions remain unanswered. Recent
studies of odorant receptor (OR) expression, synaptic organization, adult
neurogenesis, and the contribution of cortical representation during aging
suggest possible underlying mechanisms and new research directions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.004 
PMCID: PMC3947771
PMID: 24361044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Feb;37(2):55-65. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.002. Epub 2013
Dec 16.

Inflammatory pathways of seizure disorders.

Marchi N(1), Granata T(2), Janigro D(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Cerebrovascular Research, Cleveland Clinic
Lerner College of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA; Department of Neurobiology,
Institute of Functional Genomics, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique,
Montpellier, France. (2)Carlo Besta Neurologic Institute, Milan, Italy.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine, Cerebrovascular Research, Cleveland Clinic
Lerner College of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA; Department of Neurological
Surgery, Cerebrovascular Research, Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine,
Cleveland, OH, USA. Electronic address: janigrd@ccf.org.

Epilepsy refers to a cluster of neurological diseases characterized by seizures. 
Although many forms of epilepsy have a well-defined immune etiology, in other
forms of epilepsy an altered immune response is only suspected. In general, the
hypothesis that inflammation contributes to seizures is supported by experimental
results. Additionally, antiepileptic maneuvers may act as immunomodulators and
anti-inflammatory therapies can treat seizures. Triggers of seizure include a
bidirectional communication between the nervous system and organs of immunity.
Thus, a crucial cellular interface protecting from immunological seizures is the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB). Here, we summarize recent advances in the
understanding and treatment of epileptic seizures that derive from a
non-neurocentric viewpoint and suggest key avenues for future research.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.11.002 
PMCID: PMC3977596
PMID: 24355813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jan;37(1):47-53. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.007. Epub 2013
Nov 25.

The elusive engram: what can infantile amnesia tell us about memory?

Callaghan BL(1), Li S(2), Richardson R(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.
Electronic address: b.callaghan@unsw.edu.au. (2)School of Psychology, The
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.

Revealing the engram is one of the greatest challenges in neuroscience. Many
researchers focus on understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms
underlying the formation and maintenance of the engram, but an underutilized
approach has been to investigate analogous processes associated with forgetting. 
Infant rodents present an ideal model for this purpose because they display a
rapid form of non-pathological forgetting known as infantile amnesia (IA).
Despite the widespread importance of this interesting phenomenon, the study of
the neural bases of IA has remained largely neglected. Here, we consider what IA 
can tell us about memory. We argue that to understand the mechanisms underlying
the engram we must also gain an appreciation of the mechanisms that drive
forgetting.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.007 
PMID: 24287309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jan;37(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.004. Epub 2013
Nov 25.

Measuring and using light in the melanopsin age.

Lucas RJ(1), Peirson SN(2), Berson DM(3), Brown TM(4), Cooper HM(5), Czeisler
CA(6), Figueiro MG(7), Gamlin PD(8), Lockley SW(6), O'Hagan JB(9), Price LL(9),
Provencio I(10), Skene DJ(11), Brainard GC(12).

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.
Electronic address: robert.lucas@manchester.ac.uk. (2)Nuffield Laboratory of
Ophthalmology, Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of
Oxford, Headley Way, Oxford OX3 9DU, UK. (3)Department of Neuroscience, Brown
University, Box G-LN, Providence, RI, USA. (4)Faculty of Life Sciences,
University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PT, UK. (5)INSERM 846 Stem Cell and
Brain Research Institute, Department of Chronobiology, 18 Avenue du Doyen Lépine,
69500 Bron, France. (6)Division of Sleep Medicine, Harvard Medical School, and
Division of Sleep Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital,
Boston, MA, USA. (7)Lighting Research Center, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute,
Troy, NY 12180, USA. (8)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Alabama at
Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA. (9)Public Health England, Chilton, Didcot 
OX11 0RQ, UK. (10)Department of Biology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville,
VA, USA. (11)Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Surrey,
Guildford GU2 7XH, UK. (12)Department of Neurology, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philidelphia, PA, USA. Electronic address: George.Brainard@jefferson.edu.

Light is a potent stimulus for regulating circadian, hormonal, and behavioral
systems. In addition, light therapy is effective for certain affective disorders,
sleep problems, and circadian rhythm disruption. These biological and behavioral 
effects of light are influenced by a distinct photoreceptor in the eye,
melanopsin-containing intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells
(ipRGCs), in addition to conventional rods and cones. We summarize the
neurophysiology of this newly described sensory pathway and consider implications
for the measurement, production, and application of light. A new
light-measurement strategy taking account of the complex photoreceptive inputs to
these non-visual responses is proposed for use by researchers, and simple
suggestions for artificial/architectural lighting are provided for regulatory
authorities, lighting manufacturers, designers, and engineers.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.004 
PMCID: PMC4699304
PMID: 24287308  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jan;37(1):20-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.006. Epub 2013 
Nov 21.

New insights into the therapeutic potential of Girk channels.

Luján R(1), Marron Fernandez de Velasco E(2), Aguado C(3), Wickman K(4).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Investigación en Discapacidades Neurológicas (IDINE),
Departamento de Ciencias Médicas, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Castilla-La
Mancha, Campus Biosanitario, C/Almansa 14, 02008 Albacete, Spain. Electronic
address: Rafael.Lujan@uclm.es. (2)Department of Pharmacology, University of
Minnesota, 321 Church Street South East, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. (3)Instituto
de Investigación en Discapacidades Neurológicas (IDINE), Departamento de Ciencias
Médicas, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Castilla-La Mancha, Campus
Biosanitario, C/Almansa 14, 02008 Albacete, Spain. (4)Department of Pharmacology,
University of Minnesota, 321 Church Street South East, Minneapolis, MN 55455,
USA. Electronic address: wickm002@umn.edu.

G protein-dependent signaling pathways control the activity of excitable cells of
the nervous system and heart, and are the targets of neurotransmitters,
clinically relevant drugs, and drugs of abuse. G protein-gated inwardly
rectifying potassium (K(+)) (Girk/Kir3) channels are a key effector in inhibitory
signaling pathways. Girk-dependent signaling contributes to nociception and
analgesia, reward-related behavior, mood, cognition, and heart-rate regulation,
and has been linked to epilepsy, Down syndrome, addiction, and arrhythmias. We
discuss recent advances in our understanding of Girk channel structure,
organization in signaling complexes, and plasticity, as well as progress on the
development of subunit-selective Girk modulators. These findings offer new hope
for the selective manipulation of Girk channels to treat a variety of
debilitating afflictions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.006 
PMCID: PMC3880623
PMID: 24268819  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jan;37(1):30-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.005. Epub 2013 
Nov 22.

Omega-3 fatty acids and traumatic neurological injury: from neuroprotection to
neuroplasticity?

Michael-Titus AT(1), Priestley JV(2).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience and Trauma, Blizard Institute, Barts and The London
School of Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, London E1 2AT,
UK. Electronic address: A.T.Michael-Titus@qmul.ac.uk. (2)Centre for Neuroscience 
and Trauma, Blizard Institute, Barts and The London School of Medicine and
Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, London E1 2AT, UK.

Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) are compounds that have a structural 
role in the nervous system and are essential for neurodevelopment. Results
obtained with docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid show therapeutic
potential in neurotrauma. Traumatic brain injury (TBI) and spinal cord injury
(SCI) can lead to major disability and have a significant socioeconomic cost.
Thus, there is an unmet need for acute neuroprotection and for treatments that
promote neuroregeneration. Acute administration of omega-3 PUFAs after injury and
dietary exposure before or after injury improve neurological outcomes in
experimental SCI and TBI. The mechanisms involved include decreased
neuroinflammation and oxidative stress, neurotrophic support, and activation of
cell survival pathways. This review raises questions that must be addressed
before successful clinical translation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.005 
PMID: 24268818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jan;37(1):39-46. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.003. Epub 2013
Nov 13.

The neuroimmune basis of fatigue.

Dantzer R(1), Heijnen CJ(2), Kavelaars A(3), Laye S(4), Capuron L(4).

Author information: 
(1)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Division of Internal
Medicine, Department of Symptom Research, Houston, TX 77030, USA. Electronic
address: rdantzer@mdanderson.org. (2)The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer
Center, Division of Internal Medicine, Department of Symptom Research, Houston,
TX 77030, USA; University Medical Center, Laboratory of Neuroimmunology of
Developmental Origin of Disease, Utrecht, The Netherlands. (3)The University of
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Division of Internal Medicine, Department of
Symptom Research, Houston, TX 77030, USA. (4)NutriNeuro, INRA, UMR 1286,
University of Bordeaux 2, Bordeaux, France.

The exact nature and pathophysiology of fatigue remain largely elusive despite
its high prevalence in physically ill patients. Studies on the relationship
between the immune system and the central nervous system provide a new
perspective on the mechanisms of fatigue. Inflammatory mediators that are
released by activated innate immune cells at the periphery and in the central
nervous system alter the metabolism and activity of neurotransmitters, generate
neurotoxic compounds, decrease neurotrophic factors, and profoundly disturb the
neuronal environment. The resulting alterations in fronto-striatal networks
together with the activation of insula by inflammatory interoceptive stimuli
underlie the many dimensions of fatigue including reduced incentive motivation,
decreased behavioral flexibility, uncertainty about usefulness of actions, and
awareness of fatigue.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.003 
PMCID: PMC3889707
PMID: 24239063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Trends Neurosci. 2014 Jan;37(1):10-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.002. Epub 2013 
Nov 7.

Light sleep versus slow wave sleep in memory consolidation: a question of global 
versus local processes?

Genzel L(1), Kroes MC(2), Dresler M(3), Battaglia FP(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Cognitive and Neural Systems, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh,
EH8 9JZ2, UK. Electronic address: lgenzel@ed.ac.uk. (2)Donders Institute for
Brain, Cognition, and Behaviour, Radboud University Nijmegen, 6525AJ, Nijmegen,
The Netherlands. (3)Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, 80804, Munich, Germany.
(4)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and Behaviour, Radboud University
Nijmegen, 6525AJ, Nijmegen, The Netherlands; NERF - Neuroelectronics Research
Flanders, VIB - Vlaams Instituut voor Biotechnologie, B-3001, Leuven, Belgium.
Electronic address: F.Battaglia@science.ru.nl.

Sleep is strongly involved in memory consolidation, but its role remains unclear.
'Sleep replay', the active potentiation of relevant synaptic connections via
reactivation of patterns of network activity that occurred during previous
experience, has received considerable attention. Alternatively, sleep has been
suggested to regulate synaptic weights homeostatically and nonspecifically,
thereby improving the signal:noise ratio of memory traces. Here, we reconcile
these theories by highlighting the distinction between light and deep nonrapid
eye movement (NREM) sleep. Specifically, we draw on recent studies to suggest a
link between light NREM and active potentiation, and between deep NREM and
homeostatic regulation. This framework could serve as a key for interpreting the 
physiology of sleep stages and reconciling inconsistencies in terminology in this
field.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.002 
PMID: 24210928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Dec;36(12):738-48. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.001. Epub
2013 Nov 6.

Manipulating sleep spindles--expanding views on sleep, memory, and disease.

Astori S(1), Wimmer RD, Lüthi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Fundamental Neurosciences, University of Lausanne, Rue du Bugnon
9, CH-1005 Lausanne, Switzerland. Electronic address: simone.astori@unil.ch.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci. 2014 Apr;37(4):243.

Sleep spindles are distinctive electroencephalographic (EEG) oscillations
emerging during non-rapid-eye-movement sleep (NREMS) that have been implicated in
multiple brain functions, including sleep quality, sensory gating, learning, and 
memory. Despite considerable knowledge about the mechanisms underlying these
neuronal rhythms, their function remains poorly understood and current views are 
largely based on correlational evidence. Here, we review recent studies in humans
and rodents that have begun to broaden our understanding of the role of spindles 
in the normal and disordered brain. We show that newly identified molecular
substrates of spindle oscillations, in combination with evolving technological
progress, offer novel targets and tools to selectively manipulate spindles and
dissect their role in sleep-dependent processes.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.10.001 
PMID: 24210901  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Dec;36(12):695-705. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.09.001. Epub
2013 Nov 2.

Basal ganglia output to the thalamus: still a paradox.

Goldberg JH(1), Farries MA, Fee MS.

Author information: 
(1)McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA. Electronic
address: jesse.goldberg@cornell.edu.

The basal ganglia (BG)-recipient thalamus controls motor output but it remains
unclear how its activity is regulated. Several studies report that thalamic
activation occurs via disinhibition during pauses in the firing of inhibitory
pallidal inputs from the BG. Other studies indicate that thalamic spiking is
triggered by pallidal inputs via post-inhibitory 'rebound' calcium spikes.
Finally excitatory cortical inputs can drive thalamic activity, which becomes
entrained, or time-locked, to pallidal spikes. We present a unifying framework
where these seemingly distinct results arise from a continuum of thalamic firing 
'modes' controlled by excitatory inputs. We provide a mechanistic explanation for
paradoxical pallidothalamic coactivations observed during behavior that raises
new questions about what information is integrated in the thalamus to control
behavior.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.09.001 
PMCID: PMC3855885
PMID: 24188636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Dec;36(12):706-16. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.09.004. Epub
2013 Oct 22.

Reflections on agranular architecture: predictive coding in the motor cortex.

Shipp S(1), Adams RA, Friston KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Visual Neuroscience, UCL Institute of Ophthalmology, University 
College London, Bath Street, London, EC1V 9EL, UK. Electronic address:
s.shipp@ucl.ac.uk.

The agranular architecture of motor cortex lacks a functional interpretation.
Here, we consider a 'predictive coding' account of this unique feature based on
asymmetries in hierarchical cortical connections. In sensory cortex, layer 4 (the
granular layer) is the target of ascending pathways. We theorise that the
operation of predictive coding in the motor system (a process termed 'active
inference') provides a principled rationale for the apparent recession of the
ascending pathway in motor cortex. The extension of this theory to interlaminar
circuitry also accounts for a sub-class of 'mirror neuron' in motor cortex--whose
activity is suppressed when observing an action--explaining how predictive coding
can gate hierarchical processing to switch between perception and action.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.09.004 
PMCID: PMC3858810
PMID: 24157198  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Dec;36(12):717-25. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.09.003. Epub
2013 Oct 18.

New genetic insights highlight 'old' ideas on motor dysfunction in dystonia.

Goodchild RE(1), Grundmann K, Pisani A.

Author information: 
(1)Vlaams Instituut voor Biotechnologie (VIB) Centre for the Biology of Disease
and KU Leuven, Department of Human Genetics, Campus Gasthuisberg, 3000 Leuven,
Belgium.

Primary dystonia is a poorly understood but common movement disorder. Recently,
several new primary dystonia genes were identified that provide new insight into 
dystonia pathogenesis. The GNAL dystonia gene is central for striatal responses
to dopamine (DA) and is a component of a molecular pathway already implicated in 
DOPA-responsive dystonia (DRD). Furthermore, this pathway is also dysfunctional
and pathogenically linked to mTOR signaling in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias (LID). 
These new data suggest that striatal DA responses are central to primary
dystonia, even when symptoms do not benefit from DA therapies. Here we integrate 
these new findings with current understanding of striatal microcircuitry and
other dystonia-causing insults to develop new ideas on the pathophysiology of
this incapacitating movement disorder.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.09.003 
PMID: 24144882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Dec;36(12):726-37. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.006. Epub
2013 Oct 15.

Modulation of neuronal activity by phosphorylation of the K-Cl cotransporter
KCC2.

Kahle KT(1), Deeb TZ, Puskarjov M, Silayeva L, Liang B, Kaila K, Moss SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical
School, Boston, MA 02114, USA; Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of
Cardiology, Manton Center for Orphan Disease Research, Boston Children's
Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. Electronic address:
kkahle@enders.tch.harvard.edu.

The K-Cl cotransporter KCC2 establishes the low intraneuronal Cl- levels required
for the hyperpolarizing inhibitory postsynaptic potentials mediated by ionotropic
γ-aminobutyric acid receptors (GABAARs) and glycine receptors (GlyRs). Decreased 
KCC2-mediated Cl- extrusion and impaired hyperpolarizing GABAAR- and/or
GlyR-mediated currents have been implicated in epilepsy, neuropathic pain, and
spasticity. Recent evidence suggests that the intrinsic ion transport rate, cell 
surface stability, and plasmalemmal trafficking of KCC2 are rapidly and
reversibly modulated by the (de)phosphorylation of critical serine, threonine,
and tyrosine residues in the C terminus of this protein. Alterations in KCC2
phosphorylation have been associated with impaired KCC2 function in several
neurological diseases. Targeting KCC2 phosphorylation directly or indirectly via 
upstream regulatory kinases might be a novel strategy to modulate GABA- and/or
glycinergic signaling for therapeutic benefit.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.006 
PMCID: PMC4381966
PMID: 24139641  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Dec;36(12):685-94. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.007. Epub
2013 Sep 25.

Meeting at the crossroads: common mechanisms in Fragile X and Down syndrome.

Chang KT(1), Ro H, Wang W, Min KT.

Author information: 
(1)Zilkha Neurogenetic Institute and Department of Cell and Neurobiology,
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA.

Intellectual disability is characterized by significantly impaired cognitive
abilities and is due to various etiological factors, including both genetic and
non-genetic causes. Two of the most common genetic forms of intellectual
disability are Fragile X syndrome (FXS) and Down syndrome (DS). Recent studies
have shown that proteins altered in FXS and DS can physically interact and
participate in common signaling pathways regulating dendritic spine development
and local protein synthesis, thus supporting the notion that spine
dysmorphogenesis and abnormal local protein synthesis may be molecular
underpinnings of intellectual disability. Here we review the molecular
constituents regulating local protein synthesis and spine morphology and their
alterations in FXS and DS. We argue that these changes might ultimately affect
synaptic homeostasis and alter cognitive performance.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.007 
PMCID: PMC4090020
PMID: 24075449  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Nov;36(11):641-51. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.001. Epub
2013 Sep 10.

Cytoplasmic dynein heavy chain: the servant of many masters.

Schiavo G(1), Greensmith L, Hafezparast M, Fisher EM.

Author information: 
(1)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, Institute of
Neurology, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, University College
London, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK; Molecular NeuroPathobiology, Cancer
Research UK London Research Institute, 44 Lincoln's Inn Fields, London WC2A 3LY, 
UK. Electronic address: giampietro.schiavo@ucl.ac.uk.

Cytoplasmic dynein is the main retrograde motor in all eukaryotic cells. This
complex comprises different subunits assembled on a cytoplasmic dynein heavy
chain 1 (DYNC1H1) dimer. Cytoplasmic dynein is particularly important for neurons
because it carries essential signals and organelles from distal sites to the cell
body. In the past decade, several mouse models have helped to dissect the
numerous functions of DYNC1H1. Additionally, several DYNC1H1 mutations have
recently been found in human patients that give rise to a broad spectrum of
developmental and midlife-onset disorders. Here, we discuss the effects of
mutations of mouse and human DYNC1H1 and how these studies are giving us new
insight into the many critical roles DYNC1H1 plays in the nervous system.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.001 
PMCID: PMC3824068
PMID: 24035135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Nov;36(11):661-73. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.004. Epub
2013 Sep 7.

Central regulation of body-fluid homeostasis.

Noda M(1), Sakuta H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Neurobiology, National Institute for Basic Biology, 5-1 
Higashiyama, Myodaiji-cho, Okazaki 444-8787, Aichi, Japan; School of Life
Science, The Graduate University for Advanced Studies, 5-1 Higashiyama,
Myodaiji-cho, Okazaki 444-8787, Aichi, Japan. Electronic address:
madon@nibb.ac.jp.

Body-fluid homeostasis is essential to life, and the concentration of Na(+)
([Na(+)]) and osmolality in plasma and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are
continuously monitored in the brain. To maintain a physiological level of
Na/osmolality in body fluids, the control of Na and water intake and excretion
are of prime importance. Two independent sensing systems for [Na(+)] and
osmolality in circumventricular organs (CVOs) have long been postulated to be
involved in the monitoring of body-fluid conditions. In the past decade, several 
molecules were reported as promising candidates for these sensors - Nax for the
[Na(+)] sensor and transient receptor potential (TRP) channels for the
osmosensor. This review presents a summary of developments in these areas over
recent years.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.004 
PMID: 24016361  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Nov;36(11):652-60. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.003. Epub
2013 Sep 5.

Rhodopsin homeostasis and retinal degeneration: lessons from the fly.

Xiong B(1), Bellen HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Developmental Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas
77030, USA.

Rhodopsins (Rh) are G protein-coupled receptors that function as light-sensors in
photoreceptors. In humans, Rh mutations cause retinitis pigmentosa (RP), a
degenerative disease that ultimately results in blindness. Studies in Drosophila 
have provided many insights into basic Rh biology and have identified pathways
that lead to retinal degeneration. It has been shown that, because Rh is very
abundant in photoreceptors, its accumulation in numerous organelles induces
severe stress and results in degeneration of these cells. Moreover, genetic
lesions that affect proper activation of membrane-bound Rh lead to disruption in 
Ca(2+) homeostasis which also causes photoreceptor degeneration. We review here
the molecular signals involved in Rh homeostasis and the mechanisms underlying
retinal degeneration in flies, and discuss possible links to human diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.003 
PMCID: PMC3955215
PMID: 24012059  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Nov;36(11):621-31. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.002. Epub
2013 Aug 30.

Perinatal programming of adult hippocampal structure and function; emerging roles
of stress, nutrition and epigenetics.

Lucassen PJ(1), Naninck EF, van Goudoever JB, Fitzsimons C, Joels M, Korosi A.

Author information: 
(1)SILS-CNS, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Early-life stress lastingly affects adult cognition and increases vulnerability
to psychopathology, but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. In this Opinion
article, we propose that early nutritional input together with stress hormones
and sensory stimuli from the mother during the perinatal period act
synergistically to program the adult brain, possibly via epigenetic mechanisms.
We hypothesize that stress during gestation or lactation affects the intake of
macro- and micronutrients, including dietary methyl donors, and/or impairs the
dam's metabolism, thereby altering nutrient composition and intake by the
offspring. In turn, this may persistently modulate gene expression via epigenetic
programming, thus altering hippocampal structure and cognition. Understanding how
the combination of stress, nutrition, and epigenetics shapes the adult brain is
essential for effective therapies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.002 
PMID: 23998452  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Nov;36(11):674-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.07.003. Epub
2013 Aug 27.

Towards a 'systems'-level understanding of the nervous system and its disorders.

Qureshi IA(1), Mehler MF.

Author information: 
(1)Roslyn and Leslie Goldstein Laboratory for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative 
Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA; Institute
for Brain Disorders and Neural Regeneration, Albert Einstein College of Medicine,
Bronx, NY 10461, USA; Department of Neurology, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA; Rose F. Kennedy Center for Research on
Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities, Albert Einstein College of Medicine,
Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

It is becoming clear that nervous system development and adult functioning are
highly coupled with other physiological systems. Accordingly, neurological and
psychiatric disorders are increasingly being associated with a range of systemic 
comorbidities including, most prominently, impairments in immunological and
bioenergetic parameters as well as in the gut microbiome. Here, we discuss
various aspects of the dynamic crosstalk between these systems that underlies
nervous system development, homeostasis, and plasticity. We believe a better
definition of this underappreciated systems physiology will yield important
insights into how nervous system diseases with systemic comorbidities arise and
potentially identify novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.07.003 
PMCID: PMC3818389
PMID: 23988221  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Nov;36(11):632-40. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.07.002. Epub
2013 Aug 20.

NMNATs, evolutionarily conserved neuronal maintenance factors.

Ali YO(1), Li-Kroeger D, Bellen HJ, Zhai RG, Lu HC.

Author information: 
(1)The Cain Foundation Laboratories, Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, TX
77030, USA; Jan and Dan Duncan Neurological Research Institute at Texas
Children's Hospital, Houston, TX 77030, USA; Department of Pediatrics, Baylor
College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA. Electronic address: yoali@bcm.edu.

Proper brain function requires neuronal homeostasis over a range of environmental
challenges. Neuronal activity, injury, and aging stress the nervous system, and
lead to neuronal dysfunction and degeneration. Nevertheless, most organisms
maintain healthy neurons throughout life, implying the existence of active
maintenance mechanisms. Recent studies have revealed a key neuronal maintenance
and protective function for nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyl transferases
(NMNATs). We review evidence that NMNATs protect neurons through multiple
mechanisms in different contexts, and highlight functions that either require or 
are independent of NMNAT catalytic activity. We then summarize data supporting a 
role for NMNATs in neuronal maintenance and raise intriguing questions on how
NMNATs preserve neuronal integrity and facilitate proper neural function
throughout life.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.07.002 
PMCID: PMC3857727
PMID: 23968695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Oct;36(10):555-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.09.002. Epub
2013 Sep 21.

Looking back and looking forward.

Clark AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Trends in Neurosciences, Cell Press, 600 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA
02139, USA. Electronic address: tins@cell.com.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.09.002 
PMID: 24063849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Oct;36(10):557-60. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.005. Epub
2013 Sep 18.

The Brain Prize 2013: the optogenetics revolution.

Reiner A(1), Isacoff EY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology and Helen Wills Neuroscience
Institute, University of California Berkeley, Berkeley, California 94720, USA.

The 2013 Grete Lundbeck European Brain Research Prize was awarded to Ernst
Bamberg, Edward Boyden, Karl Deisseroth, Peter Hegemann, Gero Miesenböck, and
Georg Nagel 'for their invention and refinement of optogenetics'. Why
optogenetics? And why this sextet? To appreciate why, we turn first to some of
the core questions of neuroscience and the technical difficulties that long
obstructed their resolution.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.08.005 
PMID: 24054067  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Oct;36(10):587-97. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.07.001. Epub
2013 Aug 20.

Sugar for the brain: the role of glucose in physiological and pathological brain 
function.

Mergenthaler P(1), Lindauer U, Dienel GA, Meisel A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Neurology and Department of Neurology, Center for
Stroke Research, NeuroCure Cluster of Excellence, Charité University Medicine
Berlin, Berlin, Germany. Electronic address: philipp.mergenthaler@charite.de.

The mammalian brain depends upon glucose as its main source of energy, and tight 
regulation of glucose metabolism is critical for brain physiology. Consistent
with its critical role for physiological brain function, disruption of normal
glucose metabolism as well as its interdependence with cell death pathways forms 
the pathophysiological basis for many brain disorders. Here, we review recent
advances in understanding how glucose metabolism sustains basic brain physiology.
We synthesize these findings to form a comprehensive picture of the cooperation
required between different systems and cell types, and the specific breakdowns in
this cooperation that lead to disease.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.07.001 
PMCID: PMC3900881
PMID: 23968694  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Oct;36(10):598-609. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.008. Epub
2013 Jul 30.

Control of neuronal voltage-gated calcium ion channels from RNA to protein.

Lipscombe D(1), Allen SE, Toro CP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, USA.
Electronic address: Diane_Lipscombe@brown.edu.

Voltage-gated calcium ion (CaV) channels convert neuronal activity into rapid
intracellular calcium signals to trigger a myriad of cellular responses. Their
involvement in major neurological and psychiatric diseases, and importance as
therapeutic targets, has propelled interest in subcellular-specific mechanisms
that align CaV channel activity to specific tasks. Here, we highlight recent
studies that delineate mechanisms controlling the expression of CaV channels at
the level of RNA and protein. We discuss the roles of RNA editing and alternative
pre-mRNA splicing in generating CaV channel isoforms with activities specific to 
the demands of individual cells; the roles of ubiquitination and accessory
proteins in regulating CaV channel expression; and the specific binding partners 
that contribute to both pre- and postsynaptic CaV channel function.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.008 
PMCID: PMC3795946
PMID: 23907011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Oct;36(10):610-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.006. Epub
2013 Jul 19.

Blurring the boundaries: developmental and activity-dependent determinants of
neural circuits.

Wolfram V(1), Baines RA.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.

The human brain comprises approximately 100 billion neurons that express a
diverse, and often subtype-specific, set of neurotransmitters and voltage-gated
ion channels. Given this enormous complexity, a fundamental question is how is
this achieved? The acquisition of neurotransmitter phenotype was viewed as being 
set by developmental programs 'hard wired' into the genome. By contrast, the
expression of neuron-specific ion channels was considered to be highly dynamic
(i.e., 'soft wired') and shaped largely by activity-dependent mechanisms. Recent 
evidence blurs this distinction by showing that neurotransmitter phenotype can be
altered by activity and that neuron type-specific ion channel expression can be
set, and perhaps limited by, developmental programs. Better understanding of
these early regulatory mechanisms may offer new avenues to avert the behavioral
changes that are characteristic of many mental illnesses.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.006 
PMCID: PMC3794160
PMID: 23876426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Oct;36(10):561-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.007. Epub
2013 Jul 19.

Molecular nexopathies: a new paradigm of neurodegenerative disease.

Warren JD(1), Rohrer JD, Schott JM, Fox NC, Hardy J, Rossor MN.

Author information: 
(1)Dementia Research Centre, Department of Neurodegenerative Disease, UCL
Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, UK. Electronic
address: jason.warren@ucl.ac.uk.

Neural networks provide candidate substrates for the spread of proteinopathies
causing neurodegeneration, and emerging data suggest that macroscopic signatures 
of network disintegration differentiate diseases. However, how do protein
abnormalities produce network signatures? The answer may lie with 'molecular
nexopathies': specific, coherent conjunctions of pathogenic protein and intrinsic
network characteristics that define network signatures of neurodegenerative
pathologies. Key features of the paradigm that we propose here include
differential intrinsic network vulnerability to propagating protein
abnormalities, in part reflecting developmental structural and functional
factors; differential vulnerability of neural connection types (e.g., clustered
versus distributed connections) to particular pathogenic proteins; and
differential impact of molecular effects (e.g., toxic-gain-of-function versus
loss-of-function) on gradients of network damage. The paradigm has implications
for understanding and predicting neurodegenerative disease biology.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.007 
PMCID: PMC3794159
PMID: 23876425  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Oct;36(10):579-86. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.005. Epub
2013 Jul 19.

Challenges of understanding brain function by selective modulation of neuronal
subpopulations.

Kumar A(1), Vlachos I, Aertsen A, Boucsein C.

Author information: 
(1)Bernstein Center Freiburg (BCF), and Neurobiology and Biophysics, Faculty of
Biology, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany. Electronic address:
arvind.kumar@biologie.uni-freiburg.de.

Neuronal networks confront researchers with an overwhelming complexity of
interactions between their elements. A common approach to understanding neuronal 
processing is to reduce complexity by defining subunits and infer their
functional role by selectively modulating them. However, this seemingly
straightforward approach may lead to confusing results if the network exhibits
parallel pathways leading to recurrent connectivity. We demonstrate limits of the
selective modulation approach and argue that, even though highly successful in
some instances, the approach fails in networks with complex connectivity. We
argue to refine experimental techniques by carefully considering the structural
features of the neuronal networks involved. Such methods could dramatically
increase the effectiveness of selective modulation and may lead to a mechanistic 
understanding of principles underlying brain function.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.005 
PMID: 23876423  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Oct;36(10):570-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.004. Epub
2013 Jul 18.

A developmental ontology for the mammalian brain based on the prosomeric model.

Puelles L(1), Harrison M, Paxinos G, Watson C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Anatomy, University of Murcia, Murcia 30003, Spain.

In the past, attempts to create a hierarchical classification of brain structures
(an ontology) have been limited by the lack of adequate data on developmental
processes. Recent studies on gene expression during brain development have
demonstrated the true morphologic interrelations of different parts of the brain.
A developmental ontology takes into account the progressive rostrocaudal and
dorsoventral differentiation of the neural tube, and the radial migration of
derivatives from progenitor areas, using fate mapping and other experimental
techniques. In this review, we used the prosomeric model of brain development to 
build a hierarchical classification of brain structures based chiefly on gene
expression. Because genomic control of neural morphogenesis is remarkably
conservative, this ontology should prove essentially valid for all vertebrates,
aiding terminological unification.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.004 
PMID: 23871546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Sep;36(9):543-54. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.003. Epub
2013 Jul 19.

Advances in the pharmacological treatment of Parkinson's disease: targeting
neurotransmitter systems.

Brichta L(1), Greengard P, Flajolet M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, The Rockefeller University,
1230 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065, USA. Electronic address:
lars.brichta@rockefeller.edu.

For several decades, the dopamine precursor levodopa has been the primary therapy
for Parkinson's disease (PD). However, not all of the motor and non-motor
features of PD can be attributed solely to dopaminergic dysfunction. Recent
clinical and preclinical advances provide a basis for the identification of
additional innovative therapeutic options to improve the management of the
disease. Novel pharmacological strategies must be optimized for PD by: (i)
targeting disturbances of the serotonergic, noradrenergic, glutamatergic,
GABAergic, and cholinergic systems in addition to the dopaminergic system, and
(ii) characterizing alterations in the levels of neurotransmitter receptors and
transporters that are associated with the various manifestations of the disease.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.003 
PMID: 23876424  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Sep;36(9):513-21. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.001. Epub
2013 Jul 8.

Mast cells on the mind: new insights and opportunities.

Silver R(1), Curley JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Barnard College, 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027, 
USA; Department of Psychology, Columbia University, 1190 Amsterdam Avenue, New
York, NY 10027, USA; Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia
University Medical Center, 630 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032, USA.
Electronic address: QR@Columbia.edu.

Mast cells (MCs) are both sensors and effectors in communication among nervous,
vascular, and immune systems. In the brain, they reside on the brain side of the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB), and interact with neurons, glia, blood vessels, and
other hematopoietic cells via their neuroactive prestored and newly synthesized
chemicals. They are first responders, acting as catalysts and recruiters to
initiate, amplify, and prolong other immune and nervous responses upon
activation. MCs both promote deleterious outcomes in brain function and
contribute to normative behavioral functioning, particularly cognition and
emotionality. New experimental tools enabling isolation of brain MCs,
manipulation of MCs or their products, and measurement of MC products in very
small brain volumes present unprecedented opportunities for examining these
enigmatic cells.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.001 
PMID: 23845731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Sep;36(9):522-34. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.002. Epub
2013 Jul 5.

Protein tyrosine phosphatases PTPδ, PTPσ, and LAR: presynaptic hubs for synapse
organization.

Takahashi H(1), Craig AM.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Centre and Department of Psychiatry, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6T 2B5; Institut de Recherches Cliniques de
Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada H2W 1R7. Electronic address:
Hideto.Takahashi@ircm.qc.ca.

Synapse development requires differentiation of presynaptic neurotransmitter
release sites and postsynaptic receptive apparatus coordinated by synapse
organizing proteins. In addition to the well-characterized neurexins, recent
studies identified presynaptic type IIa receptor-type protein tyrosine
phosphatases (RPTPs) as mediators of presynaptic differentiation and triggers of 
postsynaptic differentiation, thus extending the roles of RPTPs from axon
outgrowth and guidance. Similarly to neurexins, RPTPs exist in multiple isoforms 
generated by alternative splicing that interact in a splice-selective code with
diverse postsynaptic partners. The parallel RPTP and neurexin hub design
facilitates synapse self-assembly through cooperation, pairs presynaptic
similarity with postsynaptic diversity, and balances excitation with inhibition. 
Upon mutation of individual genes in neuropsychiatric disorders, imbalance of
this synaptic organizing network may contribute to impaired cognitive function.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.06.002 
PMCID: PMC3789601
PMID: 23835198  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Sep;36(9):535-42. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.05.004. Epub
2013 Jul 1.

New mechanisms in memory storage: piRNAs and epigenetics.

Landry CD(1), Kandel ER, Rajasethupathy P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA; Yale
University, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.

In recent years, a greater understanding has emerged of the role epigenetic
mechanisms play in the brain, not only during development, but also in mature
neurons involved in long-term memory. The identification of spatially and
temporally tuned epigenetic modification of genetic loci during memory storage
has revealed the remarkably input-responsive, target-specific, and long-term
nature of epigenetic regulation, but the underlying mechanisms have remained
elusive. New insight into these mechanisms has come from the study of small RNAs,
which have emerged as regulators that can confer sequence specificity to DNA- and
chromatin-modifying processes. We discuss advances in the elucidation of the
epigenetic mechanisms involved in long-term memory, focusing on the role of small
RNAs, and in particular piwi-interacting RNAs (piRNAs), in the epigenetic
regulation underlying memory storage.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.05.004 
PMID: 23827695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Sep;36(9):504-12. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.05.003. Epub
2013 Jun 19.

Neuronal circuits that regulate feeding behavior and metabolism.

Sohn JW(1), Elmquist JK, Williams KW.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Hypothalamic Research, Department of Internal Medicine, The
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at Dallas, Dallas, TX, USA.

Neurons within the central nervous system receive humoral and central
(neurotransmitter or neuropeptide) signals that ultimately regulate ingestive
behavior and metabolism. Recent advances in mouse genetics combined with
neuroanatomical and electrophysiological techniques have contributed to a better 
understanding of these central mechanisms. This review integrates recently
defined cellular mechanisms and neural circuits relevant to the regulation of
feeding behavior, energy expenditure, and glucose homeostasis by metabolic
signals.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.05.003 
PMCID: PMC3769497
PMID: 23790727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Sep;36(9):497-503. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.05.002. Epub
2013 Jun 12.

Hippocampal neurogenesis and forgetting.

Frankland PW(1), Köhler S, Josselyn SA.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Neurosciences and Mental Health, The Hospital for Sick Children,
Toronto, Ontario M5G 1X8, Canada; Department of Psychology, University of
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 3GM, Canada; Department of Physiology, University
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada; Institute of Medical Science,
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada. Electronic address:
paul.frankland@sickkids.ca.

The hippocampus is thought to automatically encode all experience, yet the vast
majority of our experiences are not remembered later. Although psychological
theories have postulated the existence of decay processes for declarative memory,
the corresponding neurobiological mechanisms are unknown. Here we develop the
hypothesis that ongoing hippocampal neurogenesis represents a decay process that 
continually clears memories from the hippocampus. As newborn granule cells
integrate into established hippocampal circuits, they form new input and output
connections over the course of several weeks. Because successful memory retrieval
relies on reinvoking patterns of activity that occurred at the time of encoding
(pattern completion), neurogenesis-induced remodeling of hippocampal circuits
incrementally reduces the likelihood that a given retrieval cue will reinvoke a
previously stored pattern.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.05.002 
PMID: 23768770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Aug;36(8):489-96. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.009. Epub
2013 Jun 7.

Toward a cross-species understanding of empathy.

Panksepp J(1), Panksepp JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Physiology and Neuroscience, College of Veterinary
Medicine, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 99164-6520, USA.
jpanksepp@vetmed.wsu.edu

Although signs of empathy have now been well documented in non-human primates,
only during the past few years have systematic observations suggested that a
primal form of empathy exists in rodents. Thus, the study of empathy in animals
has started in earnest. Here we review recent studies indicating that rodents are
able to share states of fear, and highlight how affective neuroscience approaches
to the study of primary-process emotional systems can help to delineate how
primal empathy is constituted in mammalian brains. Cross-species evolutionary
approaches to understanding the neural circuitry of emotional 'contagion' or
'resonance' between nearby animals, together with the underlying
neurochemistries, may help to clarify the origins of human empathy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.009 
PMCID: PMC3839944
PMID: 23746460  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Aug;36(8):450-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.010. Epub 2013
Jun 7.

Current insights into the C9orf72 repeat expansion diseases of the FTLD/ALS
spectrum.

Cruts M(1), Gijselinck I, Van Langenhove T, van der Zee J, Van Broeckhoven C.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases Group, Department of Molecular Genetics, VIB,
Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium.

An expanded G4C2 hexanucleotide repeat in the proximal regulatory region of
C9orf72 is a frequent cause of neurodegenerative diseases in the frontotemporal
lobar degeneration (FTLD) and motor neuron disease (MND) spectrum. Although
primarily characterized by variably abundant pathological inclusions of TDP-43
protein, the lesion load was extended to TDP-43-negative, p62-positive neuronal
and glial inclusions in extended regions of the central nervous system (CNS),
particularly in cerebellum, where they may be characteristic of a C9orf72 repeat 
expansion. Disease mechanisms associated with repeat expansion disorders,
including haploinsufficiency, RNA toxicity, and abnormal translation of expanded 
repeat sequences, are beginning to emerge. We review genetic, clinical, and
pathological highlights and discuss current insights into the biology of this
novel type of repeat expansion disease.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.010 
PMID: 23746459  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Aug;36(8):460-70. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.05.001. Epub
2013 May 31.

Epigenetic layers and players underlying neurodevelopment.

LaSalle JM(1), Powell WT, Yasui DH.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Microbiology and Immunology, Genome Center, MIND Institute, University
of California, Davis, CA, USA. jmlasalle@ucdavis.edu

Epigenetic mechanisms convey information above and beyond the sequence of DNA, so
it is predicted that they are critical in the complex regulation of brain
development and explain the long-lived effects of environmental cues on pre- and 
early post-natal brain development. Neurons have a complex epigenetic landscape
that changes dynamically with transcriptional activity in early life. Here, we
summarize progress in our understanding of the discrete layers of the dynamic
methylome, chromatin proteome, noncoding RNAs, chromatin loops, and long-range
interactions in neuronal development and maturation. Many neurodevelopmental
disorders have genetic alterations in these epigenetic modifications or
regulators, and these human genetics lessons have demonstrated the importance of 
these epigenetic players and the epigenetic layers that transcriptional events
lay down in the early brain.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.05.001 
PMCID: PMC3735843
PMID: 23731492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Aug;36(8):439-49. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.008. Epub
2013 May 29.

Novel pathogenic pathways in diabetic neuropathy.

Zenker J(1), Ziegler D, Chrast R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of Lausanne, 1005 Lausanne,
Switzerland.

Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is a common complication affecting more than
one third of diabetes mellitus (DM) patients. Although all cellular components
participating in peripheral nerve function are exposed to and affected by the
metabolic consequences of DM, nodal regions, areas of intense interactions
between Schwann cells and axons, may be particularly sensitive to DM-induced
alterations. Nodes are enriched in insulin receptors, glucose transporters, Na(+)
and K(+) channels, and mitochondria, all implicated in the development and
progression of DPN. Latest results particularly reinforce the idea that changes
in ion-channel function and energy metabolism, both of which depend on axon-glia 
crosstalk, are among the important contributors to DPN. These insights provide a 
basis for new therapeutic approaches aimed at delaying or reversing DPN.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.008 
PMID: 23725712  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Aug;36(8):480-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.006. Epub 2013
May 22.

Spikes and ribbon synapses in early vision.

Baden T(1), Euler T, Weckström M, Lagnado L.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Integrative Neuroscience, Bernstein Centre for Computational
Neuroscience (BCCN), Institute for Ophthalmic Research, University of Tübingen,
Tübingen, Germany. Thomas.Baden@uni-tuebingen.de

Image processing begins in the retina, where neurons respond with graded voltage 
changes that must be converted into spikes. This conversion from 'analog' to
'digital' coding is a fundamental transformation carried out by the visual
system, but the mechanisms are still not well understood. Recent work
demonstrates that, in vertebrates, graded-to-spiking conversion of the visual
signal begins in the axonal system of bipolar cells (BCs), which transmit visual 
information through ribbon-type synapses specialized for responding to graded
voltage signals. Here, we explore the evidence for and against the idea that
ribbon synapses also transmit digital information. We then discuss the potential 
costs and benefits of digitization at different stages of visual pathways in
vertebrates and invertebrates.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.006 
PMID: 23706152  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Aug;36(8):471-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.007. Epub 2013
May 21.

Changing the tune: plasticity and adaptation of retrograde signals.

Iremonger KJ(1), Wamsteeker Cusulin JI, Bains JS.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroendocrinology and Department of Physiology, University of
Otago, PO Box 913, Dunedin 9054, New Zealand.

Retrograde signaling is a fundamental means by which neurons communicate. The
acceptance of this statement has required a revision of how we view transmission 
and storage of information at the synapse. Although there is a substantial body
of literature on the diverse molecules that serve as retrograde signals, less is 
known about how retrograde signal capacity can be modified. Is retrograde
signaling plastic? How does this plasticity manifest? Are there behavioral
correlates that may bias a neuron towards 'changing its tune', retrogradely
speaking, of course? Here, we review recent findings that retrograde signaling is
a highly labile process that adds additional layers of complexity that must be
untangled to understand information processing in the nervous system.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.007 
PMID: 23706151  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jul;36(7):405-17. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.004. Epub
2013 May 7.

Emerging role for astroglial networks in information processing: from synapse to 
behavior.

Pannasch U(1), Rouach N.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroglial Interactions in Cerebral Physiopathology, Center for
Interdisciplinary Research in Biology, Centre Nationale de la Recherche
Scientifique (CNRS) Unité Mixte de Recherche 7241, Institut National de la Santé 
et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) Unité 1050, Collège de France, 75005 Paris, 
France.

Astrocytes contribute to neurotransmission through a variety of mechanisms
ranging from synapse isolation to active signaling. Astroglial involvement in
neurophysiology has been mostly investigated at the single-cell level. However, a
unique feature of astrocytes is their high level of intercellular connectivity
mediated by connexins, the proteins forming gap junction (GJ) channels. These
astroglial GJ circuits enable the rapid intercellular exchange of ions,
metabolites, and neuroactive substances. Recent findings have suggested that,
despite their extensity, astroglial networks are also selective, preferential as 
well as plastic, and can regulate synapses, neuronal circuits, and behavior. The 
present review critically discusses the impact of astroglial networks on normal
and pathological neuronal information processing as well as the underlying
mechanisms.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.004 
PMID: 23659852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jul;36(7):429-38. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.005. Epub
2013 May 3.

Neurons and circuits for odor processing in the piriform cortex.

Bekkers JM(1), Suzuki N.

Author information: 
(1)Eccles Institute of Neuroscience, John Curtin School of Medical Research, The 
Australian National University, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.
john.bekkers@anu.edu.au

Increased understanding of the early stages of olfaction has lead to a renewed
interest in the higher brain regions responsible for forming unified 'odor
images' from the chemical components detected by the nose. The piriform cortex,
which is one of the first cortical destinations of olfactory information in
mammals, is a primitive paleocortex that is critical for the synthetic perception
of odors. Here we review recent work that examines the cellular neurophysiology
of the piriform cortex. Exciting new findings have revealed how the neurons and
circuits of the piriform cortex process odor information, demonstrating that,
despite its superficial simplicity, the piriform cortex is a remarkably subtle
and intricate neural circuit.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.005 
PMID: 23648377  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jul;36(7):418-28. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.001. Epub
2013 Apr 30.

Autophagy in axonal and dendritic degeneration.

Yang Y(1), Coleman M, Zhang L, Zheng X, Yue Z.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Hangzhou Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology,
School of Medicine, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou 310036, PR China.
yyang@hznu.edu.cn

Degeneration of axons and dendrites is a common and early pathological feature of
many neurodegenerative disorders, and is thought to be regulated by mechanisms
distinct from those determining death of the cell body. The unique structures of 
axons and dendrites (collectively neurites) may cause them to be particularly
vulnerable to the accumulation of protein aggregates and damaged organelles.
Autophagy is a catabolic mechanism in which cells clear protein aggregates and
damaged organelles. Basal autophagy occurs continuously as a housekeeping
function, and can be acutely expanded in response to stress or injury. Emerging
evidence shows that insufficient or excessive autophagy contributes to neuritic
degeneration. Here, we review the recent progress that has begun to reveal the
role of autophagy in neurite function and degeneration.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.001 
PMCID: PMC3787524
PMID: 23639383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jul;36(7):396-404. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.002. Epub
2013 Apr 30.

Metabolic signaling by lactate in the brain.

Barros LF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Estudios Científicos, Arturo Prat 514, Valdivia, Chile.
fbarros@cecs.cl

High-resolution molecular and imaging techniques are shedding light on the
mechanisms and functional significance of the transient rise in tissue lactate
that accompanies synaptic activity. Despite high energy needs, neurons have a
truncated glycolytic pathway that favors antioxidation over energy production,
whereas astrocytes team up with oligodendrocytes to extract glucose from the
blood, mobilize glycogen, and release lactate under neuronal command. Lactate
energizes neurons but also diffuses beyond the active zone and modifies the
activity of neurons and astrocytes in neighboring regions. Involved in a
hierarchy of processes from neurovascular coupling to memory formation, lactate
has a dual role as metabolic fuel and an intercellular messenger.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.002 
PMID: 23639382  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jul;36(7):375-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.008. Epub
2013 Apr 19.

Steady or changing? Long-term monitoring of neuronal population activity.

Lütcke H(1), Margolis DJ, Helmchen F.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
luetcke@hifo.uzh.ch

Stability and flexibility are both hallmarks of brain function that allow animals
to thrive in ever-changing environments. Investigating how a balance between
these opposing features is achieved with a dynamic array of cellular and
molecular constituents requires long-term tracking of activity from individual
neurons. Here, we review in vivo chronic extracellular recording studies and
recent long-term two-photon calcium-imaging investigations that address the
question of stability and plasticity of neuronal population activity in the
mammalian brain. Overall, spiking activity is heterogeneously distributed among
neurons in local populations and largely remains stable for individual cells over
time. Tuning properties appear more flexible and may be adaptively stabilized,
possibly by neuromodulators, to encode reliably and specifically salient stimuli 
or behaviors.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.008 
PMID: 23608298  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jul;36(7):385-95. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.006. Epub
2013 Apr 17.

Development of human embryonic stem cell therapies for age-related macular
degeneration.

Carr AJ(1), Smart MJ, Ramsden CM, Powner MB, da Cruz L, Coffey PJ.

Author information: 
(1)The London Project to Cure Blindness, Division of ORBIT, Institute of
Ophthalmology, University College London, 11-43 Bath Street, London, EC1V 9EL,
UK. a.carr@ucl.ac.uk

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of vision loss in
older adults and ultimately leads to the death of photoreceptor cells in the
macular area of the neural retina. Currently, treatments are only available for
patients with the wet form of AMD. In this review, we describe recent approaches 
to develop cell-based therapies for the treatment of AMD. Recent research has
focused on replacing the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE), a monolayer of cells
vital to photoreceptor cell health. We discuss the various methods used to
differentiate and purify RPE from human embryonic stem cells (HESC), and describe
the surgical approaches being used to transplant these cells in existing and
forthcoming clinical trials.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.006 
PMID: 23601133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jun;36(6):313-4. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.005.

Interview with Nancy Kopell.

Kopell N.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.005 
PMID: 23731518  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jun;36(6):363-73. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.003. Epub
2013 May 2.

Where no synapses go: gatekeepers of circuit remodeling and synaptic strength.

Mironova YA(1), Giger RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of Michigan School of
Medicine, 3065 BSRB, 109 Zina Pitcher Place, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2200, USA.

Growth inhibitory molecules in the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS)
have been implicated in the blocking of axonal sprouting and regeneration
following injury. Prominent CNS regeneration inhibitors include Nogo-A,
oligodendrocyte myelin glycoprotein (OMgp), and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans
(CSPGs), and a key question concerns their physiological role in the naïve CNS.
Emerging evidence suggests novel functions in dendrites and at synapses of
glutamatergic neurons. CNS regeneration inhibitors target the neuronal actin
cytoskeleton to regulate dendritic spine maturation, long-term synapse stability,
and Hebbian forms of synaptic plasticity. This is accomplished in part by
antagonizing plasticity-promoting signaling pathways activated by neurotrophic
factors. Altered function of CNS regeneration inhibitors is associated with
mental illness and loss of long-lasting memory, suggesting unexpected and novel
physiological roles for these molecules in brain health.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.04.003 
PMCID: PMC3674226
PMID: 23642707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jun;36(6):353-62. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.007. Epub
2013 Apr 17.

Emerging roles of metaplasticity in behaviour and disease.

Hulme SR(1), Jones OD, Abraham WC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Brain Health Research Centre, Box 56, University 
of Otago, Dunedin, 9054, New Zealand.

Since its initial conceptualisation, metaplasticity has come to encompass a wide 
variety of phenomena and mechanisms, creating the important challenge of
understanding how they contribute to network function and behaviour. Here, we
present a framework for considering potential roles of metaplasticity across
three domains of function. First, metaplasticity appears ideally placed to
prepare for subsequent learning by either enhancing learning ability generally or
by preparing neuronal networks to encode specific content. Second, metaplasticity
can homeostatically regulate synaptic plasticity, and this likely has important
behavioural consequences by stabilising synaptic weights while ensuring the
ongoing availability of synaptic plasticity. Finally, we discuss emerging
evidence that metaplasticity mechanisms may play a role in disease causally and
may serve as a potential therapeutic target.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.007 
PMID: 23602195  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jun;36(6):343-52. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.004. Epub
2013 Apr 18.

How to erase memory traces of pain and fear.

Sandkühler J(1), Lee J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, Center for Brain Research, Medical University
of Vienna, Spitalgasse 4, A-1090 Vienna, Austria.
juergen.sandkuehler@meduniwien.ac.at

Pain and fear are both aversive experiences that strongly impact on behaviour and
well being. They are considered protective when they lead to meaningful, adaptive
behaviour such as the avoidance of situations that are potentially dangerous to
the integrity of tissue (pain) or the individual (fear). Pain and fear may,
however, become maladaptive if expressed under inappropriate conditions or at
excessive intensities for extended durations. Currently emerging concepts of
maladaptive pain and fear suggest that basic neuronal mechanisms of memory
formation are relevant for the development of pathological forms of pain and
fear. Thus, the processes of erasing memory traces of pain and fear may
constitute promising targets for future therapies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.004 
PMCID: PMC3679540
PMID: 23602194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jun;36(6):325-35. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.002. Epub
2013 Apr 11.

Why size matters - balancing mitochondrial dynamics in Alzheimer's disease.

DuBoff B(1), Feany M, Götz J.

Author information: 
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Department of
Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard New Research Building, Room 630,
77 Avenue Louis Pasteur, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Once perceived as solitary structures, mitochondria are now recognized as highly 
dynamic, interconnected organelles. The tight control of their fusion and
fission, a process termed 'mitochondrial dynamics', is crucial for neurons, given
their unique architecture and special energy and calcium-buffering requirements
at the synapse. Interestingly, in Alzheimer's disease (AD), a condition initiated
at the synapse, mitochondrial dynamics are severely impaired. Of the two proteins
implicated in AD pathogenesis, amyloid-β (Aβ) and TAU, only the impact of Aβ on
mitochondrial dynamics has been studied in detail. We highlight recent findings
that TAU exerts a determinative effect in the regulation of mitochondrial
dynamics, and therefore neuronal function. In this process, the GTPase DRP1 has
emerged as a key target of both Aβ and TAU.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.002 
PMID: 23582339  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jun;36(6):336-42. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.003. Epub
2013 Apr 12.

Dissecting the diversity of midbrain dopamine neurons.

Roeper J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurophysiology, Neuroscience Center, Goethe-University,
Frankfurt, Germany. roeper@em.uni-franfurt.de

Midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons are essential for controlling key functions of the
brain, such as voluntary movement, reward processing, and working memory. The
largest populations of midbrain DA neurons are localized in two neighboring
nuclei, the substantia nigra (SN) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA).
Regardless of their different axonal projections to subcortical and cortical
targets, midbrain DA neurons have traditionally been regarded as a relatively
homogeneous group of neurons, with a stereotypical set of intrinsic
electrophysiological properties and in vivo pattern of activity. In this review, 
I highlight recent data supporting an unexpected degree of diversity among these 
midbrain DA neurons in the mammalian brain, ranging from their developmental
lineages and different synaptic connectivity to their electrophysiological
properties and behavioral functions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.003 
PMID: 23582338  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jun;36(6):315-24. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.008. Epub
2013 Mar 13.

Neurons as targets for T cells in the nervous system.

Liblau RS(1), Gonzalez-Dunia D, Wiendl H, Zipp F.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, U1043, Toulouse,
France. roland.liblau@inserm.fr

Accumulating evidence shows that T cells penetrate the central nervous system
(CNS) parenchyma in several autoimmune, infectious, and degenerative neurological
diseases. The structural and functional consequences for CNS neurons of their
encounter with activated T cells have been investigated in several experimental
systems, including ex vivo co-cultures, electrophysiology, and in vivo imaging.
Here, we review the modalities of neuron/T cell interactions. We substantiate the
contention that T cells are directly responsible for neuronal damage in a large
number of neurological diseases and discuss mechanisms of neuronal damage
mediated by distinct T cell subsets, the impact of which differs depending on the
disease. Finally, we describe how a better understanding of the mechanisms at
play offers new possibilities for therapeutic intervention.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.008 
PMID: 23478065  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Trends Neurosci. 2013 May;36(5):268-74. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.001. Epub
2013 Apr 2.

Resting brains never rest: computational insights into potential cognitive
architectures.

Deco G(1), Jirsa VK, McIntosh AR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Brain and Cognition, Computational Neuroscience Group, Department
of Information and Communication Technologies, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Roc
Boronat 138, Barcelona, 08018, Spain. gustavo.deco@upf.edu

Resting-state networks (RSNs), which have become a main focus in neuroimaging
research, can be best simulated by large-scale cortical models in which networks 
teeter on the edge of instability. In this state, the functional networks are in 
a low firing stable state while they are continuously pulled towards multiple
other configurations. Small extrinsic perturbations can shape task-related
network dynamics, whereas perturbations from intrinsic noise generate excursions 
reflecting the range of available functional networks. This is particularly
advantageous for the efficiency and speed of network mobilization. Thus, the
resting state reflects the dynamical capabilities of the brain, which emphasizes 
the vital interplay of time and space. In this article, we propose a new
theoretical framework for RSNs that can serve as a fertile ground for empirical
testing.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.03.001 
PMID: 23561718  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Trends Neurosci. 2013 May;36(5):295-304. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.007. Epub
2013 Feb 26.

Integration of guidance cues: parallel signaling and crosstalk.

Dudanova I(1), Klein R.

Author information: 
(1)Department Molecules-Signaling-Development, Max Planck Institute of
Neurobiology, Martinsried D-82152, Germany. idudanova@neuro.mpg.de

Growing axons are exposed to various guidance cues en route to their targets.
Although many guidance molecules have been identified and their effects on axon
behavior extensively studied, how axons react to combinations of signals remains 
largely unexplored. We review recent studies investigating the combined actions
of guidance cues present at the same choice points. Two main scenarios are
emerging from these studies: parallel signaling and crosstalk between guidance
systems. In the first case, cues act in an additive manner, whereas in the second
case the outcome is non-additive and differs from the sum of individual effects, 
suggesting more complex signal integration in the growth cone. Some of the
molecular mechanisms underlying these interactions are beginning to be unraveled.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.007 
PMID: 23485451  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Trends Neurosci. 2013 May;36(5):275-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.006. Epub
2013 Feb 14.

Development of cortical folding during evolution and ontogeny.

Zilles K(1), Palomero-Gallagher N, Amunts K.

Author information: 
(1)Research Centre Juelich, Institute for Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1),
Juelich, Germany. k.zilles@fz-juelich.de

Cortical folding is a hallmark of many, but not all, mammalian brains. The degree
of folding increases with brain size across mammals, but at different scales
between orders and families. In this review we summarize recent studies that have
shed light on cortical folding and discuss new models that arise from these data.
Genetic analyses argue for an independent development of brain volume and
gyrification, but more recent data on the cellular development of the cortex and 
its connectivity highlight the role of these processes in cortical folding (grey 
matter hypothesis). This, and the widely discussed tension hypothesis, further
tested by analyzing the mechanical properties of maturing nerve fibers, synapses,
and dendrites, can provide the basis for a future integrative view on cortical
folding.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.006 
PMID: 23415112  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Trends Neurosci. 2013 May;36(5):305-12. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.005. Epub
2013 Feb 4.

Gut-brain axis: how the microbiome influences anxiety and depression.

Foster JA(1), McVey Neufeld KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Neurosciences, McMaster University,
at St. Joseph's Healthcare, 50 Charlton Ave. E, T3308, Hamilton, ON, L8N 4A6,
Canada. jfoster@mcmaster.ca

Within the first few days of life, humans are colonized by commensal intestinal
microbiota. Here, we review recent findings showing that microbiota are important
in normal healthy brain function. We also discuss the relation between stress and
microbiota, and how alterations in microbiota influence stress-related behaviors.
New studies show that bacteria, including commensal, probiotic, and pathogenic
bacteria, in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract can activate neural pathways and
central nervous system (CNS) signaling systems. Ongoing and future animal and
clinical studies aimed at understanding the microbiota-gut-brain axis may provide
novel approaches for prevention and treatment of mental illness, including
anxiety and depression.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.005 
PMID: 23384445  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Trends Neurosci. 2013 May;36(5):259-67. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.010. Epub
2013 Feb 1.

Neuronal plasticity and antidepressant actions.

Castrén E(1), Hen R.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Center, University of Helsinki, P.O. Box 56, 00014 Helsinki,
Finland. eero.castren@helsinki.fi

Antidepressant treatments enhance plasticity and increase neurogenesis in the
adult brain, but it has been unclear how these effects influence mood. We propose
that, like environmental enrichment and exercise, antidepressant treatments
enhance adaptability by increasing structural variability within the nervous
system at many levels, from proliferating precursors to immature synaptic
contacts. Conversely, sensory deprivation and chronic stress reduce this
structural variability. Activity-dependent competition within the mood-related
circuits, guided by rehabilitation, then selects for the survival and
stabilization of those structures that best represent the internal or external
milieu. Increased variability together with competition-mediated selection
facilitates normal function, such as pattern separation within the dentate gyrus 
and other mood-related circuits, thereby enhancing adaptability toward novel
experiences.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.010 
PMCID: PMC3648595
PMID: 23380665  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Trends Neurosci. 2013 May;36(5):285-94. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.011. Epub
2013 Feb 1.

Cognition with few neurons: higher-order learning in insects.

Giurfa M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Université de Toulouse (UPS), Centre de Recherches sur la Cognition Animale,
31062 Toulouse cedex 9, France. martin.giurfa@univ-tlse3.fr

Insects possess miniature brains but exhibit a sophisticated behavioral
repertoire. Recent studies have reported the existence of unsuspected cognitive
capabilities in various insect species that go beyond the traditionally studied
framework of simple associative learning. Here, I focus on capabilities such as
attentional modulation and concept learning and discuss their mechanistic bases. 
I analyze whether these behaviors, which appear particularly complex, can be
explained on the basis of elemental associative learning and specific neural
circuitries or, by contrast, require an explanatory level that goes beyond simple
associative links. In doing this, I highlight experimental challenges and suggest
future directions for investigating the neurobiology of higher-order learning in 
insects, with the goal of uncovering the basic neural architectures underlying
cognitive processing.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.011 
PMID: 23375772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Apr;36(4):207-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.006. Epub 2013
Jan 31.

Interview with Bruce S. McEwen.

McEwen BS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Harold and Margaret Milliken Hatch Laboratory of Neuroendocrinology, The
Rockefeller University, 1230 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065, USA.
mcewen@rockefeller.edu

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.006 
PMID: 23375784  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Apr;36(4):218-26. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.004. Epub
2013 Jan 17.

Spatial organization of ubiquitin ligase pathways orchestrates neuronal
connectivity.

Yamada T(1), Yang Y, Bonni A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Recent studies have revealed that E3 ubiquitin ligases have essential functions
in the establishment of neuronal circuits. Strikingly, a common emerging theme in
these studies is that spatial organization of E3 ubiquitin ligases plays a
critical role in the control of neuronal morphology and connectivity. E3
ubiquitin ligases localize to the nucleus, centrosome, Golgi apparatus, axon and 
dendrite cytoskeleton, and synapses in neurons. Localization of ubiquitin ligases
within distinct subcellular compartments may facilitate neuronal responses to
extrinsic cues and the ubiquitination of local substrates. Here, we review the
functions of neuronal E3 ubiquitin ligases at distinct subcellular locales and
explore how they regulate neuronal morphology and function in the nervous system.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.004 
PMCID: PMC3622823
PMID: 23332798  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Apr;36(4):248-57. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.003. Epub
2013 Jan 15.

Adenosine: setting the stage for plasticity.

Dias RB(1), Rombo DM, Ribeiro JA, Henley JM, Sebastião AM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, University
of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal.

It is widely accepted that Hebbian forms of plasticity mediate selective
modifications in synaptic strength underlying information encoding in response to
experience and circuit formation or refinement throughout development. Several
complementary forms of homeostatic plasticity coordinate to keep Hebbian
plasticity in check, frequently through the actions of conserved regulatory
molecules. Recent evidence suggests that this may be the case for adenosine,
which is ubiquitous in the brain and is released by both neurons and glial cells 
via constitutive and activity-dependent mechanisms. Through A1 and A2A receptor
activation, adenosine modulates neuronal homeostasis and tunes the ability of
synapses to undergo and/or sustain plasticity. Here, we review how adenosine
equilibrates neuronal activity and sets the stage for synaptic plasticity.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.003 
PMID: 23332692  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Apr;36(4):237-47. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.002. Epub
2013 Jan 8.

Modeling cognitive dysfunction in neurofibromatosis-1.

Diggs-Andrews KA(1), Gutmann DH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, Box 8111,
660 South Euclid Avenue, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.

Cognitive dysfunction, including significant impairments in learning, behavior,
and attention, is found in over 10% of children in the general population.
However, in the common inherited cancer predisposition syndrome,
neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), the prevalence of these cognitive deficits
approaches 70%. As a monogenic disorder, NF1 provides a unique genetic tool to
identify and dissect mechanistically the molecular and cellular bases underlying 
cognitive dysfunction. In this review, we discuss Nf1 fly and mouse systems that 
mimic many of the cognitive abnormalities seen in children with NF1. Further, we 
describe discoveries from these models that have uncovered defects in the
regulation of Ras activity, cAMP generation, and dopamine homeostasis as key
mechanisms important for cognitive dysfunction in children with NF1.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.002 
PMCID: PMC3622809
PMID: 23312374  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Apr;36(4):209-17. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.007. Epub
2012 Dec 20.

Microglia: actively surveying and shaping neuronal circuit structure and
function.

Wake H(1), Moorhouse AJ, Miyamoto A, Nabekura J.

Author information: 
(1)Nervous System Development and Plasticity Section, The Eunice Kennedy Shriver 
National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, Bethesda, MD, USA.

The traditional role of microglia has been in brain infection and disease,
phagocytosing debris and secreting factors to modify disease progression. Recent 
evidence extends their role to healthy brain homeostasis, including the
regulation of cell death, synapse elimination, neurogenesis, and neuronal
surveillance. These actions contribute to the maturation and plasticity of neural
circuits that ultimately shape behavior. Here we review microglial contributions 
to the development, plasticity, and maintenance of neural circuits with a focus
on interactions with synapses. We introduce this topic by reviewing recent
studies on the migration and proliferation of microglia within the brain, and
conclude with the proposal that microglia dysfunction may adversely affect brain 
function, and thereby contribute to the development of psychiatric and
neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.007 
PMID: 23260014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Apr;36(4):227-36. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.001. Epub
2012 Dec 11.

Neuronal gap junctions: making and breaking connections during development and
injury.

Belousov AB(1), Fontes JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, University of Kansas
Medical Center, Kansas City, KS 66160, USA. abelousov@kumc.edu

In the mammalian central nervous system (CNS), coupling of neurons by gap
junctions (i.e., electrical synapses) and the expression of the neuronal gap
junction protein, connexin 36 (Cx36), transiently increase during early postnatal
development. The levels of both subsequently decline and remain low in the adult,
confined to specific subsets of neurons. However, following neuronal injury [such
as ischemia, traumatic brain injury (TBI), and epilepsy], the coupling and
expression of Cx36 rise. Here we summarize new findings on the mechanisms of
regulation of Cx36-containing gap junctions in the developing and mature CNS and 
following injury. We also review recent studies suggesting various roles for
neuronal gap junctions and in particular their role in glutamate-mediated
neuronal death.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.001 
PMCID: PMC3609876
PMID: 23237660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Mar;36(3):174-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.008. Epub
2013 Jan 5.

Glia and epilepsy: excitability and inflammation.

Devinsky O(1), Vezzani A, Najjar S, De Lanerolle NC, Rogawski MA.

Author information: 
(1)Epilepsy Center, Department of Neurology, NYU School of Medicine, New York, NY
10016, USA. od4@nyu.edu

Epilepsy is characterized by recurrent spontaneous seizures due to
hyperexcitability and hypersynchrony of brain neurons. Current theories of
pathophysiology stress neuronal dysfunction and damage, and aberrant connections 
as relevant factors. Most antiepileptic drugs target neuronal mechanisms.
However, nearly one-third of patients have seizures that are refractory to
available medications; a deeper understanding of mechanisms may be required to
conceive more effective therapies. Recent studies point to a significant
contribution by non-neuronal cells, the glia--especially astrocytes and
microglia--in the pathophysiology of epilepsy. This review critically evaluates
the role of glia-induced hyperexcitability and inflammation in epilepsy.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.008 
PMID: 23298414  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Mar;36(3):141-51. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.006. Epub
2012 Dec 25.

A cellular mechanism for cortical associations: an organizing principle for the
cerebral cortex.

Larkum M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurocure Cluster of Excellence, Department of Biology, Humboldt University,
Charitéplatz 1, 10117, Berlin, Germany. matthew.larkum@gmail.com

A basic feature of intelligent systems such as the cerebral cortex is the ability
to freely associate aspects of perceived experience with an internal
representation of the world and make predictions about the future. Here, a
hypothesis is presented that the extraordinary performance of the cortex derives 
from an associative mechanism built in at the cellular level to the basic
cortical neuronal unit: the pyramidal cell. The mechanism is robustly triggered
by coincident input to opposite poles of the neuron, is exquisitely matched to
the large- and fine-scale architecture of the cortex, and is tightly controlled
by local microcircuits of inhibitory neurons targeting subcellular compartments. 
This article explores the experimental evidence and the implications for how the 
cortex operates.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.006 
PMID: 23273272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Mar;36(3):152-62. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.004. Epub
2012 Dec 17.

Brainstem respiratory networks: building blocks and microcircuits.

Smith JC(1), Abdala AP, Borgmann A, Rybak IA, Paton JF.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular and Systems Neurobiology Section, National Institute of Neurological 
Disorders and Stroke (NINDS), National Institutes of Health (NIH), Bethesda, MD, 
USA. smithj2@helix.nih.gov

Breathing movements in mammals are driven by rhythmic neural activity generated
within spatially and functionally organized brainstem neural circuits comprising 
the respiratory central pattern generator (CPG). This rhythmic activity provides 
homeostatic regulation of gases in blood and tissues and integrates breathing
with other motor acts. We review new insights into the spatial-functional
organization of key neural microcircuits of this CPG from recent
multidisciplinary experimental and computational studies. The emerging view is
that the microcircuit organization within the CPG allows the generation of
multiple rhythmic breathing patterns and adaptive switching between them,
depending on physiological or pathophysiological conditions. These insights open 
the possibility for site- and mechanism-specific interventions to treat various
disorders of the neural control of breathing.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.004 
PMCID: PMC4080795
PMID: 23254296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Mar;36(3):163-73. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.10.002. Epub
2012 Dec 11.

New spin on an old transition: epithelial parallels in neuronal adhesion control.

Famulski JK(1), Solecki DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta
T6G 2E9, Canada.

During histogenesis of the vertebrate central nervous system (CNS), neuronal
progenitors must interact with germinal zone (GZ) niches, differentiate, and
morphologically mature, and neurons must migrate to their final positions. The
extrinsic cues that control neurogenesis, specify neurons, and guide their
movement are relatively well understood. However, less is known about how neurons
spatiotemporally modify cell-cell interactions and cell polarization to navigate 
through complex, distinct cellular environments during neuronal circuit
formation. Here we examine the parallels between the mechanisms controlling
epithelial morphogenesis and the cell adhesion events by which neural cells
organize GZ niches and direct neuronal migration. We focus on the emerging
relationship between neuronal adhesive interactions and conserved cell-polarity
signaling cascades.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.10.002 
PMCID: PMC3594561
PMID: 23245691  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Mar;36(3):195-206. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.002. Epub
2012 Dec 6.

Opioid receptors: distinct roles in mood disorders.

Lutz PE(1), Kieffer BL.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, Centre
National de Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), Strasbourg, France.

The roles of opioid receptors in pain and addiction have been extensively
studied, but their function in mood disorders has received less attention.
Accumulating evidence from animal research reveals that mu, delta and kappa
opioid receptors (MORs, DORs and KORs, respectively) exert highly distinct
controls over mood-related processes. DOR agonists and KOR antagonists have
promising antidepressant potential, whereas the risk-benefit ratio of currently
available MOR agonists as antidepressants remains difficult to evaluate, in
addition to their inherent abuse liability. To date, both human and animal
studies have mainly examined MORs in the etiology of depressive disorders, and
future studies will address DOR and KOR function in established and emerging
neurobiological aspects of depression, including neurogenesis, neurodevelopment, 
and social behaviors.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.002 
PMCID: PMC3594542
PMID: 23219016  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Mar;36(3):185-94. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.10.001. Epub
2012 Nov 17.

Sustaining rapid vesicular release at active zones: potential roles for vesicle
tethering.

Hallermann S(1), Silver RA.

Author information: 
(1)European Neuroscience Institute Göttingen, Grisebachstrasse 5, 37077
Göttingen, Germany. s.hallermann@eni-g.de

Rapid information processing in our nervous system relies on high-frequency
fusion of transmitter-filled vesicles at chemical synapses. Some sensory synapses
possess prominent electron-dense ribbon structures that provide a scaffold for
tethering synaptic vesicles at the active zone (AZ), enabling sustained vesicular
release. Here, we review functional data indicating that some central and
neuromuscular synapses can also sustain vesicle-fusion rates that are comparable 
to those of ribbon-type sensory synapses. Comparison of the ultrastructure across
these different types of synapses, together with recent work showing that
cytomatrix proteins can tether vesicles and speed vesicle reloading, suggests
that filamentous structures may play a key role in vesicle supply. We discuss
potential mechanisms by which vesicle tethering could contribute to sustained
high rates of vesicle fusion across ribbon-type, central, and neuromuscular
synapses.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.10.001 
PMCID: PMC4748400
PMID: 23164531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Feb;36(2):63-4. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.001.

TiNS special issue: neural control of appetite.

Jurd R.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.001 
PMID: 23380285  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Feb;36(2):121-32. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.004. Epub
2013 Jan 17.

Hypertension in obesity: is leptin the culprit?

Simonds SE(1), Cowley MA.

Author information: 
(1)Monash Obesity & Diabetes Institute, Department of Physiology, Monash
University, Clayton, VIC, Australia.

The number of obese or overweight humans continues to increase worldwide.
Hypertension is a serious disease that often develops in obesity, but it is not
clear how obesity increases the risk of hypertension. However, both obesity and
hypertension increase the risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVD). In this review, 
we examine how obesity may increase the risk of developing hypertension.
Specifically, we discuss how the adipose-derived hormone leptin influences the
sympathetic nervous system (SNS), through actions in the brain to elevate energy 
expenditure (EE) while also contributing to hypertension in obesity.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.004 
PMID: 23333346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Feb;36(2):74-82. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.007. Epub 2013
Jan 18.

Hypothalamic clocks and rhythms in feeding behaviour.

Bechtold DA(1), Loudon AS.

Author information: 
(1)University of Manchester, Manchester, UK. david.bechtold@manchester.ac.uk

Daily rhythms are evident across our physiology, ranging from overt behavioural
patterns like sleep to intricate molecular rhythms in epigenetic coding. Driving 
these rhythms at an anatomical and cellular level are circadian clock networks
comprising core clock genes and an ever-expanding list of clock-controlled genes.
Research over the past decade has revealed an intimate relationship between the
clockwork and metabolic processes. In line with this, feeding behaviour in many
species exhibits a strong circadian rhythm and, when restricted, food becomes the
most potent entraining stimulus for clocks of the body. Critically, there are
several indications that disturbance of our daily rhythms contributes to the
development of obesity and diabetes. Given our 24-h society, it is important that
we understand how the circadian clock influences what and when we eat.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.007 
PMID: 23333345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Feb;36(2):83-90. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.009. Epub 2013
Jan 18.

BDNF and the central control of feeding: accidental bystander or essential
player?

Rios M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Tufts University School of Medicine, Department of Neuroscience, Boston, MA
02111, USA. maribel.rios@tufts.edu

A considerable body of evidence links diminished brain-derived neurotrophic
factor (BDNF) signaling to energy balance dysregulation and severe obesity in
humans and rodents. Because BDNF exhibits broad neurotrophic properties, the
underpinnings of these effects and its true role in the central regulation of
food intake remain topics of debate in the field. Here, I discuss recent evidence
supporting a critical role for this neurotrophin in physiological mechanisms
regulating nutrient intake and body weight in the mature brain. They include
reports of functional interactions of BDNF with central anorexigenic and
orexigenic signaling pathways and evidence of recognized appetite hormones
exerting neurotrophic effects similar to those of BDNF.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.009 
PMCID: PMC3568936
PMID: 23333344  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Feb;36(2):101-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.002. Epub 2013
Jan 17.

Eating beyond metabolic need: how environmental cues influence feeding behavior.

Johnson AW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI
48824-1101, USA. awj@msu.edu

Animals use current, past, and projected future states of the organism and the
world in a finely tuned system to control ingestion. They must not only deal
effectively with current nutrient deficiencies, but also manage energy resources 
to meet future needs, all within the constraints of the mechanisms of metabolism.
Many recent approaches to understanding the control of ingestive behavior
distinguish between homeostatic mechanisms concerned with energy balance, and
hedonic and incentive processes based on palatability and reward characteristics 
of food. In this review, I consider how learning about environmental cues
influences homeostatic and hedonic brain signals, which may lead to increases in 
the affective taste properties of food and desire to over consume. Understanding 
these mechanisms may be critical for elucidating the etiology of the obesity
epidemic.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.002 
PMID: 23333343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Feb;36(2):110-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.003. Epub
2013 Jan 18.

Nothing tastes as good as skinny feels: the neurobiology of anorexia nervosa.

Kaye WH(1), Wierenga CE, Bailer UF, Simmons AN, Bischoff-Grethe A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA,
USA. wkaye@ucsd.edu

Individuals with anorexia nervosa (AN) engage in relentless restrictive eating
and often become severely emaciated. Because there are no proven treatments, AN
has high rates of relapse, chronicity, and death. Those with AN tend to have
childhood temperament and personality traits, such as anxiety, obsessions, and
perfectionism, which may reflect neurobiological risk factors for developing AN. 
Restricted eating may be a means of reducing negative mood caused by skewed
interactions between serotonin aversive or inhibitory and dopamine reward
systems. Brain imaging studies suggest that altered eating is a consequence of
dysregulated reward and/or awareness of homeostatic needs, perhaps related to
enhanced executive ability to inhibit incentive motivational drives. An
understanding of the neurobiology of this disorder is likely to be important for 
developing more effective treatments.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2013.01.003 
PMCID: PMC3880159
PMID: 23333342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Feb;36(2):91-100. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.008. Epub
2013 Jan 17.

Hypothalamic tanycytes: potential roles in the control of feeding and energy
balance.

Bolborea M(1), Dale N.

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick, Coventry, UK.

Tanycytes, glial-like cells that line the third ventricle, are emerging as
components of the hypothalamic networks that control body weight and energy
balance. They contact the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and send processes that come 
into close contact with neurons in the arcuate and ventromedial hypothalamic
nuclei. Tanycytes are glucosensitive and are able to respond to transmitters
associated with arousal and the drive to feed. At least some tanycytes are stem
cells and, in the median eminence, may be stimulated by diet to generate new
neurons. The quest is on to understand how tanycytes detect and respond to
changes in energy balance and how they communicate with the rest of the nervous
system to effect their functions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.008 
PMCID: PMC3605593
PMID: 23332797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Feb;36(2):65-73. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.005. Epub 2013
Jan 12.

Hypothalamic control of energy balance: insights into the role of synaptic
plasticity.

Dietrich MO(1), Horvath TL.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Integrative Cell Signaling and Neurobiology of Metabolism, Section 
of Comparative Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520,
USA.

The past 20 years witnessed an enormous leap in understanding of the central
regulation of whole-body energy metabolism. Genetic tools have enabled
identification of the region-specific expression of peripheral metabolic hormone 
receptors and have identified neuronal circuits that mediate the action of these 
hormones on behavior and peripheral tissue functions. One of the surprising
findings of recent years is the observation that brain circuits involved in
metabolism regulation remain plastic through adulthood. In this review, we
discuss these findings and focus on the role of neurons and glial cells in the
dynamic process of plasticity, which is fundamental to the regulation of
physiological and pathological metabolic events.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.005 
PMID: 23318157  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Feb;36(2):133-40. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.001. Epub
2013 Jan 8.

Mechanisms underlying current and future anti-obesity drugs.

Adan RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rudolf Magnus Institute, Department of Neuroscience and Pharmacology,
University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
r.a.h.adan@umcutrecht.nl

Regulation of body weight is organized by distributed brain circuits that use a
variety of neuropeptides and transmitters, and that are responsive to endocrine
and metabolic signals. Targeting of these circuits with novel pharmaceutical
drugs would be helpful additions to lifestyle interventions for the treatment of 
obesity. The recent FDA approval of two anti-obesity drugs holds promise in a
field in which previous drugs were removed from clinical use because of
unacceptable psychiatric and cardiovascular side effects. Here, the modes of
action of anti-obesity drugs are reviewed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.12.001 
PMID: 23312373  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jan;36(1):1-2.

Interview with Edward S. Boyden.

Boyden ES.


PMID: 23397606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jan;36(1):23-31. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.003. Epub 2012
Dec 19.

Individual differences in recovery from traumatic fear.

Holmes A(1), Singewald N.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Behavioral and Genomic Neuroscience, National Institute on
Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA), National Institute of Health, Bethesda, MD,
USA. Andrew.Holmes@nih.gov

Although exposure to major psychological trauma is unfortunately common, risk for
related neuropsychiatric conditions, such as post-traumatic stress disorder
(PTSD), varies greatly among individuals. Fear extinction offers a tractable and 
translatable behavioral readout of individual differences in learned recovery
from trauma. Studies in rodent substrains and subpopulations are providing new
insights into neural system dysfunctions associated with impaired fear
extinction. Rapid progress is also being made in identifying key molecular
circuits, epigenetic mechanisms, and gene variants associated with differences in
fear extinction. Here, we discuss how this research is informing understanding of
the etiology and pathophysiology of individual differences in risk for
trauma-related anxiety disorders, and how future work can help identify novel
diagnostic biomarkers and pharmacotherapeutics for these disorders.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.003 
PMCID: PMC3787595
PMID: 23260015  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jan;36(1):32-40. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.005. Epub 2012
Dec 8.

The ketogenic diet: metabolic influences on brain excitability and epilepsy.

Lutas A(1), Yellen G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

A dietary therapy for pediatric epilepsy known as the ketogenic diet has seen a
revival in its clinical use during the past decade. Although the underlying
mechanism of the diet remains unknown, modern scientific approaches, such as the 
genetic disruption of glucose metabolism, are allowing for more detailed
questions to be addressed. Recent work indicates that several mechanisms may
exist for the ketogenic diet, including disruption of glutamatergic synaptic
transmission, inhibition of glycolysis, and activation of ATP-sensitive potassium
channels. Here, we describe on-going work in these areas that is providing a
better understanding of metabolic influences on brain excitability and epilepsy.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.11.005 
PMCID: PMC3534786
PMID: 23228828  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jan;36(1):14-22. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.009. Epub 2012
Oct 25.

Are unreliable release mechanisms conserved from NMJ to CNS?

Tarr TB(1), Dittrich M, Meriney SD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Center for Neuroscience, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA.

The frog neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is a strong and reliable synapse because,
during activation, sufficient neurotransmitter is released to trigger a
postsynaptic action potential (AP). Recent evidence supports the hypothesis that 
this reliability emerges from the assembly of thousands of unreliable single
vesicle release sites. The mechanisms that govern this unreliability include a
paucity of voltage-gated calcium channels, a low probability of calcium channel
opening during an AP, and the rare triggering of synaptic vesicle fusion even
when a calcium channel does open and allows calcium flux. Here, we discuss the
evidence that these unreliable single vesicle release sites may be the
fundamental building blocks of many types of synapses in both the peripheral and 
central nervous system (PNS and CNS, respectively).

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.009 
PMCID: PMC4076818
PMID: 23102681  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jan;36(1):41-50. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.006. Epub 2012
Oct 13.

Pause and rebound: sensory control of cholinergic signaling in the striatum.

Schulz JM(1), Reynolds JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedicine, Physiological Institute, University of Basel,
Pestalozzistr. 20, 4056 Basel, Switzerland. j.schulz@unibas.ch

Cholinergic interneurons have emerged as one of the key players controlling
network functions in the striatum. Extracellularly recorded cholinergic
interneurons acquire characteristic responses to sensory stimuli during
reward-related learning, including a pause and subsequent rebound in spiking.
However, the precise underlying cellular mechanisms have remained elusive. Here, 
we review recent advances in our understanding of the regulation of cholinergic
interneuron activity. We discuss evidence of mechanisms that have been proposed
to underlie sensory responses, including antagonistic actions by dopamine,
recurrent inhibition via local interneurons, and an intrinsically generated
membrane hyperpolarization in response to excitatory inputs. The review
highlights outstanding questions and concludes with a model of the sensory
responses and their downstream effects through dynamic acetylcholine receptor
activation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.006 
PMID: 23073210  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jan;36(1):51-61. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.004. Epub 2012
Oct 11.

Newborn cortical neurons: only for neonates?

Feliciano DM(1), Bordey A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, and Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.

Despite a century of debate over the existence of adult cortical neurogenesis, a 
consensus has not yet been reached. Here, we review evidence of the existence,
origin, migration, and integration of neurons into the adult and neonatal
cerebral cortex. We find that the lack of consensus likely stems from the low
rate of postnatal cortical neurogenesis that has been observed, the fact that
neurogenesis may be limited to subtypes of interneurons, and variability in other
conditions, both physiological and environmental. We emphasize that neurogenesis 
occurs in the neonatal cortex and that neural stem cells are present into
adulthood; it is possible that these progenitors are dormant, but they may be
reactivated, for example, following injury.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.004 
PMCID: PMC3534801
PMID: 23062965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Trends Neurosci. 2013 Jan;36(1):3-13. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.003. Epub 2012 
Oct 5.

Dynamic DNA methylation: a prime candidate for genomic metaplasticity and
behavioral adaptation.

Baker-Andresen D(1), Ratnu VS, Bredy TW.

Author information: 
(1)Psychiatric Epigenomics Laboratory, Queensland Brain Institute, The University
of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, Australia.

DNA methylation was once considered to be a static epigenetic modification whose 
primary function was restricted to directing the development of cellular
phenotype. However, it is now evident that the methylome is dynamically regulated
across the lifespan: during development as a putative mechanism by which early
experience leaves a lasting signature on the genome and during adulthood as a
function of behavioral adaptation. Here, we propose that experience-dependent
variations in DNA methylation, particularly within the context of learning and
memory, represent a form of genomic metaplasticity that serves to prime the
transcriptional response to later learning-related stimuli and neuronal
reactivation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.003 
PMID: 23041052  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Dec;35(12):762-71. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.007. Epub
2012 Oct 23.

The sigma-1 receptor: roles in neuronal plasticity and disease.

Kourrich S(1), Su TP, Fujimoto M, Bonci A.

Author information: 
(1)Synaptic Plasticity Section, Intramural Research Program, National Institute
on Drug Abuse, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human
Services, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Sigma-1 receptors (Sig-1Rs) have been implicated in many neurological and
psychiatric conditions. Sig-1Rs are intracellular chaperones that reside
specifically at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-mitochondrion interface, referred 
to as the mitochondrion-associated ER membrane (MAM). Here, Sig-1Rs regulate
ER-mitochondrion Ca(2+) signaling. In this review, we discuss the current
understanding of Sig-1R functions. Based on this, we suggest that the key
cellular mechanisms linking Sig-1Rs to neurological disorders involve the
translocation of Sig-1Rs from the MAM to other parts of the cell, whereby Sig-1Rs
bind and modulate the activities of various ion channels, receptors, or kinases. 
Thus, Sig-1Rs and their associated ligands may represent new avenues for treating
aspects of neurological and psychiatric diseases.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.007 
PMCID: PMC3587126
PMID: 23102998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Dec;35(12):711-4. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.005. Epub
2012 Oct 5.

The Allen Human Brain Atlas: comprehensive gene expression mapping of the human
brain.

Shen EH(1), Overly CC, Jones AR.

Author information: 
(1)Allen Institute for Brain Science, Seattle, WA 98103, USA.
elaines@alleninstitute.org

The Allen Human Brain Atlas is a freely available multimodal atlas of gene
expression and anatomy comprising a comprehensive 'all genes-all structures'
array-based dataset of gene expression and complementary in situ hybridization
(ISH) gene expression studies targeting selected genes in specific brain regions.
Available via the Allen Brain Atlas data portal (www.brain-map.org), the Atlas
integrates structure, function, and gene expression data to accelerate basic and 
clinical research of the human brain in normal and disease states.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.005 
PMID: 23041053  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Dec;35(12):752-61. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.001. Epub
2012 Sep 29.

New perspectives on neuronal development via microfluidic environments.

Millet LJ(1), Gillette MU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology, University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.

Understanding the signals that guide neuronal development and direct formation of
axons, dendrites, and synapses during wiring of the brain is a fundamental
challenge in developmental neuroscience. Discovery of how local signals shape
developing neurons has been impeded by the inability of conventional culture
methods to interrogate microenvironments of complex neuronal cytoarchitectures,
where different subdomains encounter distinct chemical, physical, and fluidic
features. Microfabrication techniques are facilitating the creation of
microenvironments tailored to neuronal structures and subdomains with
unprecedented access and control. The design, fabrication, and properties of
microfluidic devices offer significant advantages for addressing unresolved
issues of neuronal development. These high-resolution approaches are poised to
contribute new insights into mechanisms for restoring neuronal function and
connectivity compromised by injury, stress, and neurodegeneration.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.001 
PMCID: PMC3508261
PMID: 23031246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Dec;35(12):715-22. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.002. Epub
2012 Sep 27.

Harnessing plasticity to understand learning and treat disease.

Kilgard MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)The University of Texas at Dallas, School of Behavioral and Brain Sciences,
Richardson, TX 75080, USA. kilgard@utdallas.edu

A large body of evidence suggests that neural plasticity contributes to learning 
and disease. Recent studies suggest that cortical map plasticity is typically a
transient phase that improves learning by increasing the pool of task-relevant
responses. Here, I discuss a new perspective on neural plasticity and suggest how
plasticity might be targeted to reset dysfunctional circuits. Specifically, a new
model is proposed in which map expansion provides a form of replication with
variation that supports a Darwinian mechanism to select the most behaviorally
useful circuits. Precisely targeted neural plasticity provides a new avenue for
the treatment of neurological and psychiatric disorders and is a powerful tool to
test the neural mechanisms of learning and memory.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.09.002 
PMCID: PMC3508154
PMID: 23021980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Dec;35(12):742-51. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.006. Epub
2012 Sep 21.

Disconnection and reconnection: the morphological basis of (mal)adaptation to
stress.

Sousa N(1), Almeida OF.

Author information: 
(1)Life and Health Science Research Institute, School of Health Sciences,
University of Minho, Braga, Portugal. njcsousa@ecsaude.uminho.pt

Maladaptive responses to stress and the associated hypersecretion of
glucocorticoids cause psychopathologies ranging from hyperemotional states and
mood dysfunction to cognitive impairments. Research in both humans and animal
models has begun to identify morphological correlates of these functional
changes. These include dendritic and synaptic reorganization, glial remodeling,
and altered cell fate in cortical and subcortical structures. The emerging view
is that stress induces a 'disconnection syndrome' whereby the transmission and
integration of information that are critical for orchestrating appropriate
physiological and behavioral responses are perturbed. High-resolution
spatiotemporal mapping of the complete neural circuitry and identification of the
cellular processes impacted by stress will help to advance discovery of
strategies to reduce or reverse the burden of stress-related neuropsychiatric
disorders.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.006 
PMID: 23000140  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Dec;35(12):733-41. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.005. Epub
2012 Sep 6.

A vitamin for the brain.

Shearer KD(1), Stoney PN, Morgan PJ, McCaffery PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Medical Sciences, School of Medical Sciences, University of
Aberdeen, Foresterhill, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, Scotland, UK.

In the central nervous system (CNS) the function of retinoic acid, the active
metabolite of vitamin A, is best understood from its action in guiding embryonic 
development; as development comes to completion, retinoic acid signaling
declines. However, it is increasingly recognized that this signaling mechanism
does not disappear in the adult brain but becomes more regionally focused and
takes on new roles. These functions are often tied to processes of neural
plasticity whether in the hippocampus, through homeostatic neural plasticity, the
olfactory bulb or the hypothalamus. The role of retinoic acid in the control of
plastic processes has led to suggestions of its involvement in neural disorders, 
both degenerative and psychiatric. This review presents a snapshot of
developments in these areas over recent years.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.005 
PMID: 22959670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Dec;35(12):723-32. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.07.001. Epub
2012 Aug 1.

How do the basal ganglia regulate sleep-wake behavior?

Lazarus M(1), Huang ZL, Lu J, Urade Y, Chen JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Behavioral Biology, Osaka Bioscience Institute, 6-2-4 
Furuedai, Suita, Osaka 565-0874, Japan.

The basal ganglia (BG) are involved in motor function, habit formation, and
reward or addictive behaviors, but the question as to how the BG integrate
arousal with these fundamental striatal functions has only recently received much
attention. Findings based on electrophysiology, neurotoxic lesioning, and the use
of transgenic animals have established that the striatum and globus pallidus are 
key structural elements for the control of sleep and wakefulness. Here, we
discuss emerging anatomical and molecular mechanisms of sleep-wake regulation at 
work in the BG. Furthermore, we propose a model whereby adenosine and dopamine
receptors in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) are involved in the integration of
behavioral processes and the induction of wakefulness through cortical
activation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.07.001 
PMID: 22858523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Nov;35(11):691-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.003. Epub
2012 Sep 16.

Nerve dependence in tissue, organ, and appendage regeneration.

Kumar A(1), Brockes JP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Structural and Molecular Biology, Division of Life Sciences,
University College London, Darwin Building, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Many regeneration contexts require the presence of regenerating nerves as a
transient component of the progenitor cell niche. Here we review nerve
involvement in regeneration of various structures in vertebrates and
invertebrates. Nerves are also implicated as persistent determinants in the niche
of certain stem cells in mammals, as well as in Drosophila. We consider our
present understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying nerve
dependence, including evidence of critical interactions with glia and non-neural 
cell types. The example of the salamander aneurogenic limb illustrates that
developmental interactions between the limb bud and its innervation can be
determinative for adult regeneration. These phenomena provide a different
perspective on nerve cells to that based on chemical and electrical excitability.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.003 
PMID: 22989534  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Nov;35(11):649-59. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.004. Epub
2012 Sep 11.

Balance of brain oxytocin and vasopressin: implications for anxiety, depression, 
and social behaviors.

Neumann ID(1), Landgraf R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Behavioral and Molecular Neurobiology, University of Regensburg,
Regensburg, Germany. inga.neumann@biologie.uni-regensburg.de

Oxytocin and vasopressin are regulators of anxiety, stress-coping, and sociality.
They are released within hypothalamic and limbic areas from dendrites, axons, and
perikarya independently of, or coordinated with, secretion from neurohypophysial 
terminals. Central oxytocin exerts anxiolytic and antidepressive effects, whereas
vasopressin tends to show anxiogenic and depressive actions. Evidence from
pharmacological and genetic association studies confirms their involvement in
individual variation of emotional traits extending to psychopathology. Based on
their opposing effects on emotional behaviors, we propose that a balanced
activity of both brain neuropeptide systems is important for appropriate
emotional behaviors. Shifting the balance between the neuropeptide systems
towards oxytocin, by positive social stimuli and/or psychopharmacotherapy, may
help to improve emotional behaviors and reinstate mental health.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.004 
PMID: 22974560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Nov;35(11):671-80. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.002. Epub
2012 Sep 7.

Otoferlin: a multi-C2 domain protein essential for hearing.

Pangršič T(1), Reisinger E, Moser T.

Author information: 
(1)InnerEarLab, Department of Otolaryngology and Collaborative Research Center
889, University Medical Center Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany.

Sound is encoded at synapses between cochlear inner hair cells and the auditory
nerve. These synapses are anatomically and functionally specialized to transmit
acoustic information with high fidelity over a lifetime. The molecular mechanisms
of hair-cell transmitter release have recently attracted substantial interest.
Here we review progress toward understanding otoferlin, a multi-C2 domain protein
identified a decade ago by genetic analysis of human deafness. Otoferlin
functions in hair-cell exocytosis. Several otoferlin C2 domains bind to Ca2+,
phospholipids, and proteins. Current research reveals requirements for otoferlin 
in priming and fusion of synaptic vesicles during sound encoding. Understanding
the molecular mechanisms through which otoferlin functions also has important
implications for understanding the disease mechanisms that lead to deafness.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.002 
PMID: 22959777  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Nov;35(11):660-70. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.001. Epub
2012 Aug 30.

Major histocompatibility complex class I proteins in brain development and
plasticity.

Elmer BM(1), McAllister AK.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience, University of California, Davis, One Shields Avenue, 
Davis, CA 95616, USA.

Proper development of the central nervous system (CNS) requires the establishment
of appropriate connections between neurons. Recent work suggests that this
process is controlled by a balance between synaptogenic molecules and proteins
that negatively regulate synapse formation and plasticity. Surprisingly, many of 
these newly identified synapse-limiting molecules are classic 'immune' proteins. 
In particular, major histocompatibility complex class I (MHCI) molecules regulate
neurite outgrowth, the establishment and function of cortical connections,
activity-dependent refinement in the visual system, and long-term and homeostatic
plasticity. This review summarizes our current understanding of MHCI expression
and function in the CNS, as well as the potential mechanisms used by MHCI to
regulate brain development and plasticity.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.08.001 
PMCID: PMC3493469
PMID: 22939644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Nov;35(11):681-90. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.007. Epub
2012 Jul 21.

A new control center for dopaminergic systems: pulling the VTA by the tail.

Bourdy R(1), Barrot M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut des Neurosciences Cellulaires et Intégratives, Centre National de la 
Recherche Scientifique, Strasbourg, France.

The tail of the ventral tegmental area (tVTA), also named the rostromedial
tegmental nucleus (RMTg), is a recently defined midbrain structure considered to 
exert a major inhibitory drive on dopamine systems. In view of its connectivity, 
tVTA is well placed to convey salient positive and negative signals to dopamine
cells and participate in adaptative behavioral responses. This structure could
act as a hub converging and integrating widespread multimodal signals toward
dopamine systems. The tVTA participates in prediction error, motor control, and
responses to aversive stimuli and drugs of abuse. In light of the crucial role of
the tVTA in the opiate control of dopamine activity, a neuroanatomical update of 
the disinhibition model of morphine action is proposed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.007 
PMID: 22824232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Nov;35(11):700-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.004. Epub
2012 Jul 14.

Caspase-3 in the central nervous system: beyond apoptosis.

D'Amelio M(1), Sheng M, Cecconi F.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico, S. Lucia Foundation, via 
del Fosso di Fiorano 65, 00143 Rome, Italy. m.damelio@hsantalucia.it

Caspase-3 has been identified as a key mediator of neuronal programmed cell
death. This protease plays a central role in the developing nervous system and
its activation is observed early in neural tube formation and persists during
postnatal differentiation of the neural network. Caspase-3 activation, a crucial 
event of neuronal cell death program, is also a feature of many chronic
neurodegenerative diseases. This traditional apoptotic function of caspase-3 is
challenged by recent studies that reveal new cell death-independent roles for
mitochondrial-activated caspase-3 in neurite pruning and synaptic plasticity.
These findings underscore the need for further research into the mechanism of
action and functions of caspase-3 that may prove useful in the development of
novel pharmacological treatments for a diverse range of neurological disorders.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.004 
PMID: 22796265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Oct;35(10):619-28. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.003. Epub
2012 Jul 10.

Chemokine CXCL12 in neurodegenerative diseases: an SOS signal for stem cell-based
repair.

Li M(1), Hale JS, Rich JN, Ransohoff RM, Lathia JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic,
Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Lim3@ccf.org

The dynamic relation between stem cells and their niche governs self-renewal and 
progenitor cell deployment. The chemokine CXCL12 (C-X-C motif ligand 12) and its 
signaling receptor CXCR4 (C-X-C motif receptor 4) represent an important pathway 
that regulates homing and maintenance of stem cells in neural niches. Neural stem
cells (NSCs) reside in specific niches where communication with blood vessels is 
regulated by CXCL12. In neurodegenerative diseases and brain tumors, reactive
vasculature forms in response to diseased tissues to create new niches that
secrete CXCL12, enhancing the recruitment of neural progenitor cells (NPCs) to
lesion sites via long-range migration. These observations suggest that the
CXCL12-CXCR4 axis maintains NSCs and serves as an emergent salvage signal for
initiating endogenous stem cell-based tissue repair.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.003 
PMCID: PMC3461091
PMID: 22784557  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Oct;35(10):629-37. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.002. Epub
2012 Jul 3.

Pain-related changes in the brain: diagnostic and therapeutic potentials.

Saab CY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Rhode Island Hospital, Brown University,
Providence, RI 02903, USA. carl_saab@brown.edu

Emerging evidence suggests that chronic pain is a disease that can alter brain
function. Imaging studies have demonstrated structural remapping and functional
reorganization of brain circuits under various pain conditions. In parallel,
preclinical models have demonstrated that chronic pain causes long-term
neuroplasticity. For example, thalamo-cortical oscillations are dysregulated and 
neurons in the sensory thalamus undergo ectopic firing linked to misexpression of
membrane ion channels. In theory, physiological changes at the single-unit,
multi-unit, and circuitry levels can be used as predictors of pain, and possibly 
to guide targeted neuromodulation of specific brain regions for therapeutic
purposes. Therefore, multidisciplinary research into the mechanisms of
pain-related phenomena in the brain may offer insights into novel approaches for 
the diagnosis, monitoring, and management of persistent pain.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.002 
PMID: 22763295  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Oct;35(10):638-47. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.001. Epub
2012 Jun 30.

TNFα in synaptic function: switching gears.

Santello M(1), Volterra A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Morphology, University of Lausanne, Rue du
Bugnon 9, 1005 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Pathological brain states are known to induce massive production of
proinflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα). At much 
lower levels, these cytokines are also present in the healthy brain, where it is 
increasingly being recognized that they exert regulatory influences. Recent
studies suggest that TNFα plays important roles in controlling synaptic
transmission and plasticity. Here, we discuss the evidence in support of synaptic
regulation by TNFα and the underlying cellular mechanisms, including control of
AMPA receptor trafficking and glutamate release from astrocytes. These findings
suggest that increases in TNFα levels (caused by nervous system infection,
injury, or disease) transform the physiological actions of the cytokine into
deleterious ones. This functional switch may contribute to cognitive alterations 
in several brain pathologies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.001 
PMID: 22749718  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Oct;35(10):607-18. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.003. Epub
2012 Jun 19.

CaMKII regulation in information processing and storage.

Coultrap SJ(1), Bayer KU.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Colorado Denver School of Medicine, 
Aurora, CO 80045, USA.

The Ca(2+)/Calmodulin(CaM)-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) is activated by
Ca(2+)/CaM, but becomes partially autonomous (Ca(2+)-independent) upon
autophosphorylation at T286. This hallmark feature of CaMKII regulation provides 
a form of molecular memory and is indeed important in long-term potentiation
(LTP) of excitatory synapse strength and memory formation. However, emerging
evidence supports a direct role in information processing, while storage of
synaptic information may instead be mediated by regulated interaction of CaMKII
with the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) complex. These and other CaMKII regulation
mechanisms are discussed here in the context of the kinase structure and their
impact on postsynaptic functions. Recent findings also implicate CaMKII in
long-term depression (LTD), as well as functional roles at inhibitory synapses,
lending renewed emphasis on better understanding the spatiotemporal control of
CaMKII regulation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.003 
PMCID: PMC3461103
PMID: 22717267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Oct;35(10):587-96. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.005. Epub
2012 Jun 16.

κ-opioid receptor/dynorphin system: genetic and pharmacotherapeutic implications 
for addiction.

Butelman ER(1), Yuferov V, Kreek MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of the Biology of Addictive Diseases, The Rockefeller University,
1230 York Avenue, New York, NY 10065, USA.

Addictions to cocaine or heroin/prescription opioids [short-acting μ-opioid
receptor (MOPr) agonists] involve relapsing cycles, with
experimentation/escalating use, withdrawal/abstinence, and relapse/re-escalation.
κ-Opioid receptors (KOPr; encoded by OPRK1), and their endogenous agonists, the
dynorphins (encoded by PDYN), have counter-modulatory effects on reward caused by
cocaine or MOPr agonist exposure, and exhibit plasticity in addictive-like
states. KOPr/dynorphin activation is implicated in depression/anxiety, often
comorbid with addictions. In this opinion article we propose that particular
stages of the addiction cycle are differentially affected by KOPr/dynorphin
systems. Vulnerability and resilience can be due to pre-existing (e.g., genetic) 
factors, or epigenetic modifications of the OPRK1 or PDYN genes during the
addiction cycle. Pharmacotherapeutic approaches limiting changes in
KOPr/dynorphin tone, especially with KOPr partial agonists, may hold potential
for the treatment of specific drug addictions and psychiatric comorbidity.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.005 
PMCID: PMC3685470
PMID: 22709632  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Oct;35(10):597-606. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.011. Epub
2012 Jun 2.

From genes to social communication: molecular sensing by the vomeronasal organ.

Chamero P(1), Leinders-Zufall T, Zufall F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Saarland School of Medicine, D-66424
Homburg, Germany.

The ability to distinguish molecular cues emitted by other individuals is a
fundamental feature of social interactions such as finding and identifying a
mate, establishing social hierarchies, and initiating interspecies defensive
behaviors. In rodents, this ability involves the vomeronasal organ (VNO), a
distinct chemoreceptive structure that is part of the olfactory system. Recent
insights have led to unprecedented progress in identifying ligand and receptor
families underlying vomeronasal recognition, characterizing the behavioral
consequences caused by VNO activation, and defining higher neural circuits
underlying the initiation of instinctive behaviors such as aggression. Here, we
review such findings and discuss future areas for investigation, including
large-scale mapping studies, immune system-VNO interactions, in vivo recording of
neural activity, and optogenetic alteration of sexual and social behaviors.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.011 
PMID: 22658923  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Sep;35(9):521-3.

Interview with Judy Illes.

Illes J(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Core for Neuroethics, Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, 
University of British Columbia, 2211 Wesbrook Mall, Koerner S124, Vancouver, BC
V6T 2B5, Canada. jilles@mail.ubc.ca


PMID: 23097771  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Sep;35(9):557-64. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.008. Epub
2012 Jul 31.

Striatal microcircuitry and movement disorders.

Gittis AH(1), Kreitzer AC.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, San Francisco, CA, USA.

The basal ganglia network serves to integrate information about context, actions,
and outcomes to shape the behavior of an animal based on its past experience.
Clinically, the basal ganglia receive the most attention for their role in
movement disorders. Recent advances in technology have opened new avenues of
research into the structure and function of basal ganglia circuits. One emerging 
theme is the importance of GABAergic interneurons in coordinating and regulating 
network function. Here, we discuss evidence that changes in striatal GABAergic
microcircuits contribute to basal ganglia dysfunction in several movement
disorders. Because interneurons are genetically and neurochemically unique from
striatal projection neurons, they may provide promising therapeutic targets for
the treatment of a variety of striatal-based disorders.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.008 
PMCID: PMC3432144
PMID: 22858522  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Sep;35(9):524-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.005. Epub 2012
Jul 12.

The Brain Prize 2012: opening the doors of auditory perception.

Richardson GP(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex, Falmer, Brighton BN1 9QG, UK.
g.p.richardson@sussex.ac.uk

The Brain Prize 2012 was awarded to two remarkable scientists, Christine Petit
and Karen Steel, who have exploited the use of human and mouse genetics to
revolutionize our understanding of the molecular and cellular basis of hearing
and deafness, opening up what was previously an inaccessible, but highly
important, end organ of the brain. The present article highlights their seminal
contributions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.06.005 
PMID: 22794803  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Sep;35(9):574-85. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.007. Epub
2012 Jun 28.

Speed control: cogs and gears that drive the circadian clock.

Zheng X(1), Sehgal A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of
Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

In most organisms, an intrinsic circadian (~24-h) timekeeping system drives
rhythms of physiology and behavior. Within cells that contain a circadian clock, 
specific transcriptional activators and repressors reciprocally regulate each
other to generate a basic molecular oscillator. A mismatch of the period
generated by this oscillator with the external environment creates circadian
disruption, which can have adverse effects on neural function. Although several
clock genes have been extensively characterized, a fundamental question remains: 
how do these genes work together to generate a ~24-h period? Period-altering
mutations in clock genes can affect any of multiple regulated steps in the
molecular oscillator. In this review, we examine the regulatory mechanisms that
contribute to setting the pace of the circadian oscillator.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.007 
PMCID: PMC3434952
PMID: 22748426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Sep;35(9):536-45. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.006. Epub
2012 Jun 16.

Methamphetamine influences on brain and behavior: unsafe at any speed?

Marshall JF(1), O'Dell SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Center for Neurobiology of Learning
and Memory, University of California, Irvine, CA 92697, USA. jfmarsha@uci.edu

Methamphetamine damages monoamine-containing nerve terminals in the brains of
both animals and human drug abusers, and the cellular mechanisms underlying this 
injury have been extensively studied. More recently, the growing evidence for
methamphetamine influences on memory and executive function of human users has
prompted studies of cognitive impairments in methamphetamine-exposed animals.
After summarizing current knowledge about the cellular mechanisms of
methamphetamine-induced brain injury, this review emphasizes research into the
brain changes that underlie the cognitive deficits that accompany repeated
methamphetamine exposure. Novel approaches to mitigating or reversing
methamphetamine-induced brain and behavioral changes are described, and it is
argued that the slow spontaneous reversibility of the injury produced by this
drug may offer opportunities for novel treatment development.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.006 
PMCID: PMC3432170
PMID: 22709631  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Sep;35(9):565-73. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.004. Epub
2012 Jun 15.

Cell fate determination in the vertebrate retina.

Bassett EA(1), Wallace VA.

Author information: 
(1)Vision Program, Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, 501 Smyth Road, Ottawa,
Ont, K1H 8L6, Canada.

The vertebrate retina is a well-characterized and tractable model for studying
neurogenesis. Retinal neurons and glia are generated in a conserved sequence from
a pool of multipotent progenitor cells, and numerous cell fate determinants for
the different classes of retinal cell types have been identified. Here, we
summarize several recent developments in the field that have advanced
understanding of the regulation of multipotentiality and temporal competence of
progenitors. We also discuss recent insights into the relative influence of
lineage-based versus stochastic modes of cell fate determination. Enhancing and
integrating knowledge of the molecular and genetic machinery underlying retinal
development is critically important for understanding not only normal
developmental mechanisms, but also therapeutic interventions aimed at restoring
vision loss.

Crown Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.004 
PMID: 22704732  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Sep;35(9):546-56. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.001. Epub
2012 Jun 8.

Unique biology of gliomas: challenges and opportunities.

Watkins S(1), Sontheimer H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Center for Glial Biology in Medicine, University
of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.

Gliomas are terrifying primary brain tumors for which patient outlook remains
bleak. Recent research provides novel insights into the unique biology of
gliomas. For example, these tumors exhibit an unexpected pluripotency that
enables them to grow their own vasculature. They have an unusual ability to
navigate tortuous extracellular pathways as they invade, and they use
neurotransmitters to inflict damage and create room for growth. Here, we review
studies that illustrate the importance of considering interactions of gliomas
with their native brain environment. Such studies suggest that gliomas constitute
a neurodegenerative disease caused by the malignant growth of brain support
cells. The chosen examples illustrate how targeted research into the biology of
gliomas is yielding new and much needed therapeutic approaches to this
challenging nervous system disease.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.05.001 
PMCID: PMC3578203
PMID: 22683220  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Sep;35(9):527-35. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.012. Epub
2012 Jun 2.

Functional network dysfunction in anxiety and anxiety disorders.

Sylvester CM(1), Corbetta M, Raichle ME, Rodebaugh TL, Schlaggar BL, Sheline YI, 
Zorumski CF, Lenze EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University, Saint Louis, MO, USA.
sylvestc@psychiatry.wustl.edu

A recent paradigm shift in systems neuroscience is the division of the human
brain into functional networks. Functional networks are collections of brain
regions with strongly correlated activity both at rest and during cognitive
tasks, and each network is believed to implement a different aspect of cognition.
We propose here that anxiety disorders and high trait anxiety are associated with
a particular pattern of functional network dysfunction: increased functioning of 
the cingulo-opercular and ventral attention networks as well as decreased
functioning of the fronto-parietal and default mode networks. This functional
network model can be used to differentiate the pathology of anxiety disorders
from other psychiatric illnesses such as major depression and provides targets
for novel treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.012 
PMCID: PMC3432139
PMID: 22658924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Aug;35(8):457-67. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.009. Epub
2012 May 30.

Reinforcement learning: computing the temporal difference of values via distinct 
corticostriatal pathways.

Morita K(1), Morishima M, Sakai K, Kawaguchi Y.

Author information: 
(1)Physical and Health Education, Graduate School of Education, The University of
Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan. morita@p.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Midbrain dopamine neurons supposedly encode reward prediction error, but how
error signals are computed remains elusive. Here, we propose a mechanism based on
recent findings regarding corticostriatal circuits. Specifically, we propose that
two distinct subpopulations of corticostriatal neurons differentially represent
the animal's current and previous states/actions through unidirectional
connectivity from one subpopulation to the other and strong recurrent excitation 
that exists only within the recipient subpopulation. These corticostriatal
subpopulations selectively connect to the direct and indirect pathways of the
basal ganglia, such that the temporal difference between the values of current
and previous states/actions--the core of the error signal--can be computed. Our
hypothesis suggests a unified view of basal ganglia functions and has important
clinical implications.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.009 
PMID: 22658226  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Aug;35(8):507-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.007. Epub
2012 May 24.

Migraine: a disorder of brain excitatory-inhibitory balance?

Vecchia D(1), Pietrobon D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Padova, 35121 Padova, Italy.

Migraine is a common disabling brain disorder whose key manifestations are
recurrent attacks of unilateral headache and interictal hypersensitivity to
sensory stimuli. Migraine arises from a primary brain dysfunction that leads to
episodic activation and sensitization of the trigeminovascular pain pathway and
as a consequence to headache. Major open issues concern the molecular and
cellular mechanisms of the primary brain dysfunction(s) and of migraine pain. We 
review here our current understanding of these mechanisms, focusing on recent
advances regarding migraine genetics, headache mechanisms, and the primary brain 
dysfunction(s) underlying migraine onset and susceptibility to cortical spreading
depression, the neurophysiological correlate of migraine aura. We also discuss
insights obtained from the functional analysis of familial hemiplegic migraine
mouse models.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.007 
PMID: 22633369  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Aug;35(8):497-506. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.003. Epub
2012 May 25.

Sodium dynamics: another key to astroglial excitability?

Kirischuk S(1), Parpura V, Verkhratsky A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiology and Pathophysiology, Universal Medical Center of the
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Mainz, Germany.

Astroglial excitability is largely mediated by fluctuations in intracellular ion 
concentrations. In addition to generally acknowledged Ca²⁺ excitability of
astroglia, recent studies have demonstrated that neuronal activity triggers
transient increases in the cytosolic Na⁺ concentration ([Na⁺](i)) in perisynaptic
astrocytes. These [Na⁺](i) transients are controlled by multiple Na⁺-permeable
channels and Na⁺-dependent transporters; spatiotemporally organized [Na⁺](i)
dynamics in turn regulate diverse astroglial homeostatic responses such as
metabolic/signaling utilization of lactate and glutamate, transmembrane transport
of neurotransmitters and K⁺ buffering. In particular, near-membrane [Na⁺](i)
transients determine the rate and the direction of the transmembrane transport of
GABA and Ca²⁺. We discuss here the role of Na⁺ in the regulation of various
systems that mediate fast bidirectional communication between neurones and glia
at the single synapse level.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.003 
PMID: 22633141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Aug;35(8):468-76. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.008. Epub
2012 May 23.

Origins of arousal: roles for medullary reticular neurons.

Pfaff DW(1), Martin EM, Faber D.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology and Behavior, The Rockefeller University, 1230 York
Avenue, New York, NY 10065, USA. pfaff@rockefeller.edu

The existence of a primitive CNS function involved in the activation of all
vertebrate behaviors, generalized arousal (GA), has been proposed. Here, we
provide an overview of the neuroanatomical, neurophysiological and molecular
properties of reticular neurons within the nucleus gigantocellularis (NGC) of the
mammalian medulla, and propose that the properties of these neurons equip them to
contribute powerfully to GA. We also explore the hypothesis that these neurons
may have evolved from the Mauthner cell in the medulla of teleost fish, although 
NGC neurons have a wider range of action far beyond the specific escape network
served by Mauthner cells. Understanding the neuronal circuits that control and
regulate GA is central to understanding how motivated behaviors such as hunger,
thirst and sexual behaviors arise.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.008 
PMID: 22626543  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Aug;35(8):487-96. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.004. Epub
2012 May 23.

The dystrophin-glycoprotein complex in brain development and disease.

Waite A(1), Brown SC, Blake DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Psychological Medicine and Clinical Neurosciences, MRC Centre for
Neuropsychiatric Genetics and Genomics, Cardiff University, Heath Park, Cardiff
CF14 4XN, UK.

In addition to muscle disease, defects in processing and assembly of the
dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC) are associated with a spectrum of brain
abnormalities ranging from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to neuronal migration 
disorders. In brain, the DGC is involved in the organisation of GABA(A) receptors
(GABA(A)Rs) and aquaporin-4 (AQP4)-containing protein complexes in neurons and
glia, respectively. During development, defects in the glycosylation of
α-dystroglycan that impair its ability to interact with the extracellular matrix 
(ECM) are frequently associated with cobblestone lissencephaly and mental
retardation. Furthermore, mutations in the gene encoding ɛ-sarcoglycan (SGCE)
cause the neurogenic movement disorder myoclonus dystonia syndrome. In this
review, we describe recent progress in defining distinct roles for the DGC in
neurons and glia.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.004 
PMID: 22626542  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Aug;35(8):477-86. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.002. Epub
2012 May 22.

Sensing pressure with ion channels.

Nilius B(1), Honoré E.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Ion Channel Research, Department of Cell and Molecular Medicine,
Katholieke Universiteit-KU Leuven, Campus Gasthuisberg, O&N 1, Herestraat 49-Bus 
802, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium.

Opening of stretch-activated ion channels (SACs) is the earliest event occurring 
in mechanosensory transduction. The molecular identity of mammalian SACs has long
remained a mystery. Only very recently, Piezo1 and Piezo2 have been shown to be
essential components of distinct SACs and moreover, purified Piezo1 forms
cationic channels when reconstituted into artificial bilayers. In line with these
findings, dPiezo was demonstrated to act in the Drosophila mechanical nociception
pathway. Finally, the 3D structure of the two-pore domain potassium channel
(K(2P)), TRAAK [weakly inward rectifying K⁺ channel (TWIK)-related arachidonic
acid stimulated K⁺ channel], has recently been solved, providing valuable
information about pharmacology, selectivity and gating mechanisms of
stretch-activated K⁺ channels (SAKs). These recent findings allow a better
understanding of the molecular basis of molecular and cellular
mechanotransduction.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.002 
PMID: 22622029  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jul;35(7):454-5.

Corrigendum: Serotonin transporter gene, stress, and raphe–raphe interactions: a 
molecular mechanism of depression.

Jasinska AJ, Lowry CA, Burmeister M.

Erratum for
    Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jul;35(7):395-402.


PMID: 22919705  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jul;35(7):412-21. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.010. Epub
2012 May 30.

Structural insights into the rodent CNS via diffusion tensor imaging.

Zhang J(1), Aggarwal M, Mori S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. jzhang3@jhmi.edu

Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is a useful tool for studying anatomy and
pathology in the rodent central nervous system (CNS).The unique tissue contrasts 
provided by DTI are well suited for monitoring disease progression, studying
brain development, and characterizing anatomical phenotypes. Recent technical
developments have vastly improved the speed and resolution of rodent DTI. Ongoing
research efforts exploring the microstructural basis of DTI signals have provided
useful insights into its capabilities to delineate brain structures and detect
neuropathology. Significant progress has also been made in combining DTI results 
with data acquired using other imaging modalities to enhance our understanding of
the rodent CNS.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.010 
PMCID: PMC3591520
PMID: 22651954  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jul;35(7):441-53. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.005. Epub
2012 May 25.

Molecular mechanisms underlying maturation and maintenance of the vertebrate
neuromuscular junction.

Shi L(1), Fu AK, Ip NY.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Life Science, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 
Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, China.

The vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ), a peripheral synapse formed between 
motoneuron and skeletal muscle, is characterized by a protracted postnatal period
of maturation and life-long maintenance. In neuromuscular disorders such as
congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMSs), disruptions of NMJ maturation and/or
maintenance are frequently observed. In particular, defective neuromuscular
transmission associated with structural and molecular abnormalities at the pre-
and postsynaptic membranes, as well as at the synaptic cleft, has been reported
in these patients. Here, we review recent advances in the understanding of
molecular and cellular events that mediate NMJ maturation and maintenance. The
underlying regulatory mechanisms, including key molecular regulators at the
presynaptic nerve terminal, synaptic cleft, and postsynaptic muscle membrane, are
discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.005 
PMID: 22633140  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jul;35(7):403-11. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.006. Epub
2012 May 22.

The thrifty lipids: endocannabinoids and the neural control of energy
conservation.

DiPatrizio NV(1), Piomelli D.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pharmacology, University of California, Irvine, School of
Medicine, Irvine, CA, USA.

The 'thrifty gene hypothesis' posits that evolution preferentially selects
physiological mechanisms that optimize energy storage to increase survival under 
alternating conditions of abundance and scarcity of food. Recent experiments
suggest that endocannabinoids - a class of lipid-derived mediators that activate 
cannabinoid receptors in many cells of the body - are key agents of energy
conservation. The new evidence indicates that these compounds increase energy
intake and decrease energy expenditure by controlling the activity of peripheral 
and central neural pathways involved in the sensing and hedonic processing of
sweet and fatty foods, as well as in the storage of their energy content for
future use.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.006 
PMCID: PMC3744874
PMID: 22622030  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jul;35(7):431-40. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.007. Epub
2012 Apr 13.

p75 neurotrophin receptor signaling in nervous system injury and degeneration:
paradox and opportunity.

Ibáñez CF(1), Simi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, 17177 Stockholm, Sweden.
carlos.ibanez@ki.se

Injury or insult to the adult nervous system often results in reactivation of
signaling pathways that are normally only active during development. The p75
neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) is one such signaling molecule whose expression 
increases markedly following neural injury in many of the same cell types that
express p75(NTR) during development. A series of studies during the past decade
has demonstrated that p75(NTR) signaling contributes to neuronal and glial cell
damage, axonal degeneration and dysfunction during injury and cellular stress.
Why the nervous system reacts to injury by inducing a molecule that aids the
demise of cells and axons is a biological paradox that remains to be explained
satisfactorily. On the other hand, it may offer unique therapeutic opportunities 
for limiting the severity of nervous system injury and disease.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.007 
PMID: 22503537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jul;35(7):422-30. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.02.003. Epub
2012 Mar 28.

Are you or aren't you? Challenges associated with physiologically identifying
dopamine neurons.

Ungless MA(1), Grace AA.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College London, Hammersmith Hospital,
Du Cane Road, London, W12 0NN, UK. mark.ungless@imperial.ac.uk

The dopamine system is involved in motivation, reward and learning, and
dysfunction in this system has been implicated in several disorders, including
Parkinson's disease (PD) and schizophrenia. Key progress in our understanding of 
its functions has come from extracellular in vivo electrophysiological recordings
from midbrain dopamine neurons. Numerous studies have used a defined set of
criteria to identify dopamine neurons electrophysiologically. However, a few
recent studies have suggested that a minority population of non-dopamine neurons 
may not be readily distinguishable from dopamine neurons, raising questions as to
the reliability of past findings. We provide an overview of the key findings
related to this controversy and assess the criteria used for the
electrophysiological identification of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra
pars compacta (SNC) and ventral tegmental area (VTA).

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.02.003 
PMCID: PMC3383926
PMID: 22459161  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jul;35(7):395-402. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.001. Epub
2012 Jan 31.

Serotonin transporter gene, stress and raphe-raphe interactions: a molecular
mechanism of depression.

Jasinska AJ(1), Lowry CA, Burmeister M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
jasinska@umich.edu

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jul;35(7):454-5.

Reports of gene-environment interactions (GxE) between the serotonin transporter 
gene and stress on risk of depression have generated both excitement and
controversy. The controversy persists in part because a mechanistic account of
this GxE on serotonergic neurotransmission and risk of depression has been
lacking. In this Opinion, we draw on recent discoveries in the functional
neuroanatomy of the serotonergic dorsal raphe nucleus (DR) to propose such a
mechanistic account. We argue that genetically produced variability in serotonin 
reuptake during stressor-induced raphe-raphe interactions alters the balance in
the amygdala-ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC)-DR circuitry underlying
stressor reactivity and emotion regulation. In particular, the recently
characterized stressor-responsive serotonergic interneurons originating from the 
dorsolateral DR may hold a key to unlocking the GxE mechanism of depression.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.001 
PMID: 22301434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jun;35(6):345-55. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.008. Epub
2012 May 12.

Experimental evidence for sparse firing in the neocortex.

Barth AL(1), Poulet JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Center for the Neural Basis of
Cognition, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.

The advent of unbiased recording and imaging techniques to evaluate firing
activity across neocortical neurons has revealed substantial heterogeneity in
response properties in vivo, and that a minority of neurons are responsible for
the majority of spikes. Despite the computational advantages to sparsely firing
populations, experimental data defining the fraction of responsive neurons and
the range of firing rates have not been synthesized. Here we review data about
the distribution of activity across neuronal populations in primary sensory
cortex. Overall, the firing output of granular and infragranular layers is
highest. Although subthreshold activity across supragranular neurons is decidedly
non-sparse, spikes are much less frequent and some cells are silent. Superficial 
layers of the cortex may employ specific cell and circuit mechanisms to increase 
sparseness.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.008 
PMID: 22579264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jun;35(6):364-72. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.001. Epub
2012 May 11.

Mitochondria as a central sensor for axonal degenerative stimuli.

Court FA(1), Coleman MP.

Author information: 
(1)Millennium Nucleus for Regenerative Biology, Faculty of Biology, Catholic
University of Chile, Santiago 8331150, Chile. fcourt@bio.puc.cl

Axonal degeneration is a major contributor to neuronal dysfunction in many
neurological conditions and has additional roles in development. It can be
triggered by divergent stimuli including mechanical, metabolic, infectious,
toxic, hereditary and inflammatory stresses. Axonal mitochondria are an important
convergence point as regulators of bioenergetic metabolism, reactive oxygen
species (ROS), Ca²⁺ homeostasis and protease activation. The challenges likely to
render axonal mitochondria more vulnerable than their cellular counterparts are
reviewed, including axonal transport, replenishing nuclear-encoded proteins and
maintenance of quality control, fusion and fission in locations remote from the
cell body. The potential for mitochondria to act as a decision node in axon loss 
is considered, highlighting the need to understand the biology of axonal
mitochondria and their contributions to degenerative mechanisms for novel
therapeutic strategies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.04.001 
PMID: 22578891  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jun;35(6):335-44. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.005. Epub
2012 Apr 26.

Sensitive time-windows for susceptibility in neurodevelopmental disorders.

Meredith RM(1), Dawitz J, Kramvis I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Neurophysiology, Center for Neurogenomics and
Cognitive Research-CNCR, VU University Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1085, 1081 HV
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. r.m.meredith@vu.nl

Many neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs) are characterized by age-dependent
symptom onset and regression, particularly during early postnatal periods of
life. The neurobiological mechanisms preceding and underlying these developmental
cognitive and behavioral impairments are, however, not clearly understood. Recent
evidence using animal models for monogenic NDDs demonstrates the existence of
time-regulated windows of neuronal and synaptic impairments. We propose that
these developmentally-dependent impairments can be unified into a key concept:
namely, time-restricted windows for impaired synaptic phenotypes exist in NDDs,
akin to critical periods during normal sensory development in the brain.
Existence of sensitive time-windows has significant implications for our
understanding of early brain development underlying NDDs and may indicate
vulnerable periods when the brain is more susceptible to current therapeutic
treatments.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.005 
PMID: 22542246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jun;35(6):382-92. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.001. Epub
2012 Apr 18.

The Sturm und Drang of anabolic steroid use: angst, anxiety, and aggression.

Oberlander JG(1), Henderson LP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Neurobiology, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, 
NH 03755, USA.

Anabolic androgenic steroids (AAS) are illicitly administered to enhance athletic
performance and body image. Although conferring positive actions on performance, 
steroid abuse is associated with changes in anxiety and aggression. AAS users are
often keenly invested in understanding the biological actions of these drugs.
Thus, mechanistic information on AAS actions is important not only for the
biomedical community, but also for steroid users. Here we review findings from
animal studies on the impact of AAS exposure on neural systems that are crucial
for the production of anxiety and aggression, and compare the effects of the
different classes of AAS and their potential signaling mechanisms, as well as
context-, age- and sex-dependent aspects of their actions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.001 
PMCID: PMC4127319
PMID: 22516619  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jun;35(6):373-81. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.006. Epub
2012 Apr 18.

Molecular interactions underlying the specification of sensory neurons.

Lallemend F(1), Ernfors P.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Neurobiology, Department of Medical Biochemistry and
Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, 17177 Stockholm, Sweden.
francois.lallemend@ki.se

Sensory neurons of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) respond to many different kinds
of stimulus. The ability to discriminate between the diverse types of sensation
is reflected by the existence of functionally and morphologically specialized
sensory neurons. This neuronal diversity is created in a step-wise process
extending well into postnatal life. Here, we review the hierarchical organization
and the molecular process involving interactions between environmental growth
factors, used and reused in different developmental contexts in self-reinforcing 
and cross-inhibitory mechanisms, and intrinsic gene programs that underlie the
progressive diversification of sensory progenitors into specialized neurons. The 
recent advance in knowledge of sensory neuron specification may provide
mechanistic principles that could extend to other parts of the nervous system.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.006 
PMID: 22516617  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jun;35(6):356-63. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.004. Epub
2012 Apr 10.

Drosophila visual transduction.

Montell C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Biological Chemistry and Neuroscience, Center for Sensory
Biology, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205,
USA. cmontell@jhmi.edu

Visual transduction in the Drosophila compound eye functions through a pathway
that couples rhodopsin to phospholipase C (PLC) and the opening of transient
receptor potential (TRP) channels. This cascade differs from phototransduction in
mammalian rods and cones, but is remarkably similar to signaling in mammalian
intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs). In this review, I
focus on recent advances in the fly visual system, including the discovery of a
visual cycle and insights into the machinery and mechanisms involved in
generating a light response in photoreceptor cells.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.004 
PMCID: PMC3367115
PMID: 22498302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Trends Neurosci. 2012 May;35(5):293-304. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.003. Epub
2012 Apr 18.

EphBs: an integral link between synaptic function and synaptopathies.

Sheffler-Collins SI(1), Dalva MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Farber Institute for Neurosciences, Thomas
Jefferson University, 900 Walnut Street, Suite 462, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

The assembly and function of neuronal circuits rely on selective cell-cell
interactions to control axon targeting, generate pre- and postsynaptic
specialization and recruit neurotransmitter receptors. In neurons, EphB receptor 
tyrosine kinases mediate excitatory synaptogenesis early during development, and 
then later coordinate synaptic function by controlling synaptic glutamate
receptor localization and function. EphBs direct synapse formation and function
to regulate cellular morphology through downstream signaling mechanisms and by
interacting with glutamate receptors. In humans, defective EphB-dependent
regulation of NMDA receptor (NMDAR) localization and function is associated with 
neurological disorders, including neuropathic pain, anxiety disorders and
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we propose that EphBs act as a central organizer 
of excitatory synapse formation and function, and as a key regulator of diseases 
linked to NMDAR dysfunction.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.03.003 
PMCID: PMC3631563
PMID: 22516618  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Trends Neurosci. 2012 May;35(5):325-34. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.004. Epub
2012 Mar 19.

MicroRNAs in neuronal function and dysfunction.

Im HI(1), Kenny PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Behavioral and Molecular Neuroscience, Department of Molecular
Therapeutics, The Scripps Research Institute - Scripps Florida, Jupiter, FL
33458, USA.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNA transcripts expressed throughout the
brain that can regulate neuronal gene expression at the post-transcriptional
level. Here, we provide an overview of the role for miRNAs in brain development
and function, and review evidence suggesting that dysfunction in miRNA signaling 
contributes to neurodevelopment disorders such as Rett and fragile X syndromes,
as well as complex behavioral disorders including schizophrenia, depression and
drug addiction. A better understanding of how miRNAs influence the development of
neuropsychiatric disorders may reveal fundamental insights into the causes of
these devastating illnesses and offer novel targets for therapeutic development.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.004 
PMCID: PMC3565236
PMID: 22436491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Trends Neurosci. 2012 May;35(5):284-92. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.006. Epub
2012 Mar 6.

Does moderate drinking harm the fetal brain? Insights from animal models.

Valenzuela CF(1), Morton RA, Diaz MR, Topper L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, School of Medicine, University of New Mexico
Health Sciences Center, Albuquerque, NM 87131, USA. fvalenzuela@salud.unm.edu

Although public health campaigns advise pregnant women to abstain from ethanol,
drinking during pregnancy is pervasive. Here, we highlight recent studies that
have clearly demonstrated long-lasting neurobehavioral deficits in the offspring 
of laboratory animals exposed to moderate levels of ethanol during development.
Alterations in learning, memory, motor coordination, social behavior, and stress 
responses were identified in these animals. Increased vulnerability to substance 
abuse was also demonstrated. These behavioral alterations have been associated
with impairments in neurotransmitter systems, neuromodulators, and/or synaptic
plasticity in several brain regions. With this review we hope to contribute to a 
better appreciation of the potential effects of developmental exposure to
moderate ethanol levels, leading to better interventions aimed at relieving fetal
alcohol spectrum disorders.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.006 
PMCID: PMC3348364
PMID: 22402065  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Trends Neurosci. 2012 May;35(5):315-24. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.005. Epub
2012 Mar 2.

Sculpting the hippocampus from within: stress, spines, and CRH.

Maras PM(1), Baram TZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy/Neurobiology, University of California Irvine, Irvine,
CA 92697, USA.

Learning and memory processes carried out within the hippocampus are influenced
by stress in a complex manner, and the mechanisms by which stress modulates the
physiology of the hippocampus are not fully understood. This review addresses how
the production and release of the neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing hormone
(CRH) within the hippocampus during stress influences neuronal structure and
hippocampal function. CRH functions in the contexts of acute and chronic stresses
taking place during development, adulthood and aging. Current challenges are to
uncover how the dynamic actions of CRH integrate with the well-established roles 
of adrenal-derived steroid stress hormones to shape the cognitive functions of
the hippocampus in response to stress.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.005 
PMCID: PMC3423222
PMID: 22386641  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Trends Neurosci. 2012 May;35(5):274-83. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.007. Epub
2012 Feb 14.

Memory enhancement: consolidation, reconsolidation and insulin-like growth factor
2.

Alberini CM(1), Chen DY.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, NY 10003, USA.
ca60@nyu.edu

Life and societies would change significantly if memory capacity or persistence
in health and disease could be enhanced. It has been known for many years that
memory can be improved and strengthened. Substances known to enhance memory
include hormones, neurotransmitters, neuropeptides and metabolic substrates.
Recently, attention has been given to identifying the molecular mechanisms and
targets whereby memory enhancement can be achieved. One approach would be to
target the physiological changes that are induced by learning and naturally
required for memory strengthening via consolidation and reconsolidation. Here, we
review approaches that boost memories by targeting the cAMP response element
binding protein-CCAAT enhancer binding protein (CREB-C/EBP) pathway and/or its
recently identified target gene insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2).

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.007 
PMCID: PMC3348400
PMID: 22341662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Trends Neurosci. 2012 May;35(5):305-14. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.002. Epub
2012 Feb 2.

Emerging roles of the neuronal nucleolus.

Hetman M(1), Pietrzak M.

Author information: 
(1)Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Research Center and Department of Neurological
Surgery, University of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky 40292, USA.
michal.hetman@louisville.edu

Although, the nucleolus has been observed for almost 200 years in neurons,
studies that directly address the neuronal roles of this subnuclear structure
have appeared only recently. The aim of this review is to discuss recent progress
and identify some critical questions that remain to be answered. As expected for 
the cellular center of ribosome biogenesis, the nucleolus is essential for the
growth of developing neurons, including neurite morphogenesis and long-term
maintenance of mature neurons. In addition, the nucleolus contributes to neuronal
stress responses, including the regulation of apoptosis. Hence, disrupted
neurodevelopment or neurodegeneration are among the likely consequences of
nucleolar dysfunction. Conversely, the presence of active nucleoli may determine 
the potential for neurorepair.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.002 
PMCID: PMC3348388
PMID: 22305768  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Apr;35(4):211-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.02.001. Epub 2012
Mar 5.

How schema and novelty augment memory formation.

van Kesteren MT(1), Ruiter DJ, Fernández G, Henson RN.

Author information: 
(1)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University
Nijmegen, P.O. Box 9101, 6500 HB, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
marlieke.vankesteren@donders.ru.nl

Information that is congruent with existing knowledge (a schema) is usually
better remembered than less congruent information. Only recently, however, has
the role of schemas in memory been studied from a systems neuroscience
perspective. Moreover, incongruent (novel) information is also sometimes better
remembered. Here, we review lesion and neuroimaging findings in animals and
humans that relate to this apparent paradoxical relationship between schema and
novelty. In addition, we sketch a framework relating key brain regions in medial 
temporal lobe (MTL) and medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) during encoding,
consolidation and retrieval of information as a function of its congruency with
existing information represented in neocortex. An important aspect of this
framework is the efficiency of learning enabled by congruency-dependent MTL-mPFC 
interactions.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.02.001 
PMID: 22398180  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Apr;35(4):261-70. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.003. Epub
2012 Feb 16.

Sortilin: a receptor to regulate neuronal viability and function.

Nykjaer A(1), Willnow TE.

Author information: 
(1)The Lundbeck Foundation Research Centre MIND, Department of Biomedicine,
University of Aarhus, Ole Worms Allé 1170, DK-8000 Aarhus C, Denmark.
an@biokemi.au.dk

Sortilin is a type-1 receptor expressed in neurons of the central and peripheral 
nervous systems. Initially considered a rather peculiar receptor resembling an
intracellular sorting protein in yeast, sortilin has emerged as a key player in
the regulation of neuronal viability and function. It acts as a receptor of
neurotrophic factors and neuropeptides, but also as a co-receptor to cytokine
receptors, tyrosine receptor kinases, G-protein coupled receptors and
ion-channels. Here, we review recent findings that identified multiple roles for 
sortilin in the cellular transport and signaling. Furthermore, we discuss how
sortilin contributes not only to the functional integrity of the nervous system
during physiological conditions but also plays an important role during neuronal 
injury and disease processes.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2012.01.003 
PMID: 22341525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Apr;35(4):250-60. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.005. Epub
2012 Jan 19.

The addicted brain craves new neurons: putative role for adult-born progenitors
in promoting recovery.

Mandyam CD(1), Koob GF.

Author information: 
(1)Committee on the Neurobiology of Addictive Disorders, The Scripps Research
Institute, La Jolla, CA, USA. cmandyam@scripps.edu

Addiction is a chronic relapsing disorder associated with compulsive drug taking,
drug seeking and a loss of control in limiting intake, reflected in three stages 
of a recurrent cycle: binge/intoxication, withdrawal/negative affect, and
preoccupation/anticipation ("craving"). This review discusses the role of
adult-born neural and glial progenitors in drug seeking associated with the
different stages of the addiction cycle. A review of the current literature
suggests that the loss of newly born progenitors, particularly in hippocampal and
cortical regions, plays a role in determining vulnerability to relapse in rodent 
models of drug addiction. The normalization of drug-impaired neurogenesis or
gliogenesis may help reverse neuroplasticity during abstinence and, thus, may
help reduce the vulnerability to relapse and aid recovery.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.005 
PMCID: PMC3321119
PMID: 22265158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Apr;35(4):240-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.010. Epub 2012
Jan 10.

GluN3 subunit-containing NMDA receptors: not just one-trick ponies.

Pachernegg S(1), Strutz-Seebohm N, Hollmann M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry I - Receptor Biochemistry, Ruhr University Bochum, 
44780 Bochum, Germany.

The two GluN3 subunits were the last NMDA receptor subunits to be cloned some 15 
years ago. Strikingly, despite the steadily growing interest in their function,
their physiological role remains elusive. The original billing as
dominant-negative modulators of classical NMDA receptors composed of GluN1 and
GluN2 subunits has given way to proposals of much more complex functions,
including roles in synaptogenesis and synaptic plasticity. In addition, GluN3
subunits in the absence of GluN2 surprisingly assemble with GluN1 into excitatory
glycine receptors. This review provides an overview of the unique spatial and
temporal expression patterns of the GluN3 subunits, discusses proposed functions 
and physiological roles for receptors comprising these subunits, and briefly
summarizes their putative involvement in several neural diseases.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.010 
PMID: 22240240  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Apr;35(4):230-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.003. Epub 2012
Jan 4.

The cis side of juxtacrine signaling: a new role in the development of the
nervous system.

Yaron A(1), Sprinzak D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot
76100, Israel. avraham.yaron@weizmann.ac.il

Cell-cell communication by juxtacrine signaling plays a key role in the
development of the nervous system, from cell fate determination through axonal
guidance to synaptogenesis. Interestingly, several juxtacrine signaling systems
exhibit an inhibitory interaction between receptors and ligands in the same cell,
termed cis inhibition. These include the Notch, semaphorin and ephrin signaling
systems. Here we review the role of cis inhibition in these signaling systems in 
the development of the nervous system. We compare and contrast cis inhibition
mechanisms and discuss their potential cellular function as a
threshold-generating mechanism. The prevalence of cis inhibition suggests that
these interactions and their functional regulatory roles may serve as a general
design principle for juxtacrine signaling-mediated processes during and beyond
neurodevelopment.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.003 
PMID: 22222351  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Apr;35(4):220-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.007. Epub 2011
Dec 15.

Sensing sound: molecules that orchestrate mechanotransduction by hair cells.

Kazmierczak P(1), Müller U.

Author information: 
(1)Dorris Neuroscience Center, Department of Cell Biology, The Scripps Research
Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.

Animals use acoustic signals to communicate and to obtain information about their
environment. The processing of acoustic signals is initiated at auditory sense
organs, where mechanosensory hair cells convert sound-induced vibrations into
electrical signals. Although the biophysical principles underlying the
mechanotransduction process in hair cells have been characterized in much detail 
over the past 30 years, the molecular building-blocks of the mechanotransduction 
machinery have proved to be difficult to determine. We review here recent studies
that have both identified some of these molecules and established the mechanisms 
by which they regulate the activity of the still-elusive mechanotransduction
channel.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.007 
PMCID: PMC3310959
PMID: 22177415  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Mar;35(3):197-208. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.006. Epub
2012 Feb 1.

Rodent models for HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders.

Gorantla S(1), Poluektova L, Gendelman HE.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurodegenerative Disorders and Department of Pharmacology and
Experimental Neuroscience, University of Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, NE, USA.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND)
reflect the spectrum of neural impairments seen during chronic viral infection.
Current research efforts focus on improving antiretroviral and adjunctive
therapies, defining disease onset and progression, facilitating drug delivery,
and halting neurodegeneration and viral resistance. Because HIV is
species-specific, generating disease in small-animal models has proved
challenging. After two decades of research, rodent HAND models now include those 
containing a human immune system. Antiviral responses, neuroinflammation and
immunocyte blood-brain barrier (BBB) trafficking follow HIV infection in these
rodent models. We review these and other rodent models of HAND and discuss their 
unmet potential in reflecting human pathobiology and in facilitating disease
monitoring and therapeutic discoveries.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.006 
PMCID: PMC3294256
PMID: 22305769  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Mar;35(3):185-96. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.001. Epub
2012 Jan 12.

The vestibular system: multimodal integration and encoding of self-motion for
motor control.

Cullen KE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec H3G 1Y6, Canada.
Kathleen.cullen@mcgill.ca

Understanding how sensory pathways transmit information under natural conditions 
remains a major goal in neuroscience. The vestibular system plays a vital role in
everyday life, contributing to a wide range of functions from reflexes to the
highest levels of voluntary behavior. Recent experiments establishing that
vestibular (self-motion) processing is inherently multimodal also provide insight
into a set of interrelated questions. What neural code is used to represent
sensory information in vestibular pathways? How do the interactions between the
organism and the environment shape encoding? How is self-motion information
processing adjusted to meet the needs of specific tasks? This review highlights
progress that has recently been made towards understanding how the brain encodes 
and processes self-motion to ensure accurate motor control.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.001 
PMCID: PMC4000483
PMID: 22245372  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Mar;35(3):164-74. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.002. Epub
2011 Dec 5.

Growing the growth cone: remodeling the cytoskeleton to promote axon
regeneration.

Hur EM(1), Saijilafu, Zhou FQ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA.

Axon growth is driven by the movement of a growth cone, a specialized sensory
motile structure located at the tip of a growing neurite. Although stalled
retraction bulbs have long been recognized as hallmarks of regeneration failure, 
mechanisms that control the formation and migration of nerve endings are only
beginning to be unraveled. Recent studies point to microtubules as key
determinants for such processes, and emerging evidence suggests that regulators
of actin and microtubule dynamics in the growth cone might serve as attractive
targets for controlling both the speed and trajectory of regenerating axons. This
review discusses the potential of and recent progress in direct modulation of the
growth cone machinery as a novel strategy to promote axon regeneration in the
nervous system after injury.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.002 
PMCID: PMC3294076
PMID: 22154154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Mar;35(3):156-63. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.006. Epub
2011 Nov 30.

Sensory axon regeneration: rebuilding functional connections in the spinal cord.

Smith GM(1), Falone AE, Frank E.

Author information: 
(1)Spinal Cord and Brain Injury Research Center, University of Kentucky,
Lexington, KY 40536-0509, USA.

Functional regeneration within the adult spinal cord remains a formidable task. A
major barrier to regeneration of sensory axons into the spinal cord is the dorsal
root entry zone. This region displays many of the inhibitory features
characteristic of other central nervous system injuries. Several experimental
treatments, including inactivation of inhibitory molecules (such as Nogo and
chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans) or administration of neurotrophic factors
(such as nerve growth factor, neurotrophin3, glial-derived neurotrophic factor
and artemin), have been found to promote anatomical and functional regeneration
across this barrier. However, there have been relatively few experiments to
determine whether regenerating axons project back to their appropriate target
areas within the spinal cord. This review focuses on recent advances in sensory
axon regeneration, including studies assessing the ability of sensory axons to
reconnect with their original synaptic targets.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.006 
PMCID: PMC3294012
PMID: 22137336  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Mar;35(3):175-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.005. Epub
2011 Nov 24.

New dimensions of interneuronal specialization unmasked by principal cell
heterogeneity.

Krook-Magnuson E(1), Varga C, Lee SH, Soltesz I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of California, Irvine, CA
92697-1280, USA. ekrookma@uci.edu

Although the diversity of neocortical and hippocampal GABAergic interneurons is
recognized in terms of their anatomical, molecular and functional properties,
principal cells are usually assumed to constitute homogenous populations.
However, even within a single layer, subpopulations of principal cells can often 
be differentiated by their distinct long-range projection targets. Such
subpopulations of principal cells can have different local connection properties 
and excitatory inputs, forming subnetworks that may serve as separate
information-processing channels. Interestingly, as reviewed here, recent evidence
has revealed specific instances where interneuron cell types selectively
innervated distinct subpopulations of principal cells, targeting only those with 
particular long-distance projection targets. This organization represents a novel
form of interneuron specialization, providing interneurons with the potential to 
selectively regulate specific information-processing streams.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.005 
PMCID: PMC3294038
PMID: 22119146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Mar;35(3):145-55. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.003. Epub
2011 Nov 25.

Fear conditioning and extinction: emotional states encoded by distinct signaling 
pathways.

Tronson NC(1), Corcoran KA, Jovasevic V, Radulovic J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, The Asher Center for Study
and Treatment of Depressive Disorders, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

Conditioning and extinction of fear have traditionally been viewed as two
independent learning processes for encoding representations of contexts or cues
(conditioned stimuli, CS), aversive events (unconditioned stimuli, US), and their
relationship. Based on the analysis of protein kinase signaling patterns in
neurons of the fear circuit, we propose that fear and extinction are best
conceptualized as emotional states triggered by a single CS representation with
two opposing values: aversive and non-aversive. These values are conferred by the
presence or absence of the US and encoded by distinct sets of kinase signaling
pathways and their downstream targets. Modulating specific protein kinases thus
has the potential to modify emotional states, and hence, may emerge as a
promising treatment for anxiety disorders.

Copyright Â© 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.003 
PMCID: PMC3290759
PMID: 22118930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Feb;35(2):135-43. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.002. Epub
2012 Jan 3.

Postsynaptic signaling during plasticity of dendritic spines.

Murakoshi H(1), Yasuda R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, 
USA.

Dendritic spines, small bulbous postsynaptic compartments emanating from neuronal
dendrites, have been thought to serve as basic units of memory storage. Despite
their small size (~0.1 femtoliter), thousands of species of proteins exist in the
spine, including receptors, channels, scaffolding proteins and signaling enzymes.
Biochemical signaling mediated by these molecules leads to morphological and
functional plasticity of dendritic spines, and ultimately learning and memory in 
the brain. Here, we review new insights into the mechanisms underlying spine
plasticity brought about by recent advances in imaging techniques to monitor
molecular events in single dendritic spines. The activity of each protein
displays a specific spatiotemporal pattern, coordinating downstream events at
different microdomains to change the function and morphology of dendritic spines.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.002 
PMCID: PMC3306839
PMID: 22222350  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Feb;35(2):104-10. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.003. Epub
2012 Jan 4.

Seeing the light: photobehavior in fruit fly larvae.

Keene AC(1), Sprecher SG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Nevada, Reno, NV 89557, USA.

Understanding how sensory stimuli drive behavior requires a detailed
understanding of the molecular and neural nature through which the stimuli are
received and processed. The visual system of the fruit fly Drosophila
melanogaster shares marked similarities to that of mammals. Although much focus
has been given to the fly visual system, an even further simplified eye and brain
makes the visual system of Drosophila larvae an excellent model for dissecting
sensory processing and behavioral responses to light. Recent work has identified 
sensory and central brain neurons required for larval visual behaviors, including
circadian rhythms. Here, we review the genes and neurons regulating visual
processing in Drosophila larvae and discuss the implications of this work for
furthering understanding of more complex visual systems.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.003 
PMID: 22222349  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Feb;35(2):123-34. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.006. Epub
2011 Dec 21.

Molecular mechanisms regulating myelination in the peripheral nervous system.

Pereira JA(1), Lebrun-Julien F, Suter U.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cell Biology, Department of Biology, Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology, ETH Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.

Glial cells and neurons are engaged in a continuous and highly regulated
bidirectional dialog. A remarkable example is the control of myelination.
Oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS) and Schwann cells (SCs) in
the peripheral nervous system (PNS) wrap their plasma membranes around axons to
organize myelinated nerve fibers that allow rapid saltatory conduction. The
functionality of this system is critical, as revealed by numerous neurological
diseases that result from deregulation of the system, including multiple
sclerosis and peripheral neuropathies. In this review we focus on PNS myelination
and present a conceptual framework that integrates crucial signaling mechanisms
with basic SC biology. We will highlight signaling hubs and overarching molecular
mechanisms, including genetic, epigenetic, and post-translational controls, which
together regulate the interplay between SCs and axons, extracellular signals, and
the transcriptional network.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.006 
PMID: 22192173  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Feb;35(2):81-91. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.001. Epub 2011
Dec 9.

Trisomy 21 and early brain development.

Haydar TF(1), Reeves RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Boston University School of Medicine, 
Boston, MA 02118, USA. thaydar@bu.edu

Trisomy for human chromosome 21 (Hsa21) results in Down syndrome (DS). The
finished human genome sequence provides a thorough catalog of the genetic
elements whose altered dosage perturbs development and function in DS. However,
understanding how small alterations in the steady state transcript levels for <2%
of human genes can disrupt development and function of essentially every cell
presents a more complicated problem. Mouse models that recapitulate specific
aspects of DS have been used to identify changes in brain morphogenesis and
function. Here we provide a few examples of how trisomy for specific genes
affects the development of the cortex and cerebellum to illustrate how gene
dosage effects might contribute to divergence between the trisomic and euploid
brains.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.001 
PMCID: PMC3273608
PMID: 22169531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Feb;35(2):92-103. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.002. Epub
2011 Dec 1.

Prion protein at the crossroads of physiology and disease.

Biasini E(1), Turnbaugh JA, Unterberger U, Harris DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA
02118, USA.

The presence of the cellular prion protein (PrP(C)) on the cell surface is
critical for the neurotoxicity of prions. Although several biological activities 
have been attributed to PrP(C), a definitive demonstration of its physiological
function remains elusive. In this review, we discuss some of the proposed
functions of PrP(C), focusing on recently suggested roles in cell adhesion,
regulation of ionic currents at the cell membrane and neuroprotection. We also
discuss recent evidence supporting the idea that PrP(C) may function as a
receptor for soluble oligomers of the amyloid β peptide and possibly other toxic 
protein aggregates. These data suggest surprising new connections between the
physiological function of PrP(C) and its role in neurodegenerative diseases
beyond those caused by prions.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.002 
PMCID: PMC3273588
PMID: 22137337  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Feb;35(2):111-22. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.09.004. Epub
2011 Nov 19.

Developmental neuroplasticity after cochlear implantation.

Kral A(1), Sharma A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Audioneurotechnology & Department of Experimental Otology, ENT
Clinics, Medical University Hannover, Germany.

Cortical development is dependent on stimulus-driven learning. The absence of
sensory input from birth, as occurs in congenital deafness, affects normal growth
and connectivity needed to form a functional sensory system, resulting in
deficits in oral language learning. Cochlear implants bypass cochlear damage by
directly stimulating the auditory nerve and brain, making it possible to avoid
many of the deleterious effects of sensory deprivation. Congenitally deaf animals
and children who receive implants provide a platform to examine the
characteristics of cortical plasticity in the auditory system. In this review, we
discuss the existence of time limits for, and mechanistic constraints on,
sensitive periods for cochlear implantation and describe the effects of
multimodal and cognitive reorganization that result from long-term auditory
deprivation.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.09.004 
PMCID: PMC3561718
PMID: 22104561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jan;35(1):47-56. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.004.

Signaling pathways underlying the pathophysiology and treatment of depression:
novel mechanisms for rapid-acting agents.

Duman RS(1), Voleti B.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Psychiatry and Neurobiology, Yale University School of
Medicine, 34 Park Street, New Haven, CT 06508, USA. ronald.duman@yale.edu

Basic and clinical studies demonstrate that stress and depression are associated 
with atrophy and loss of neurons and glia, which contribute to the decreased size
and function of limbic brain regions that control mood and depression, including 
the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus. Here, we review findings that suggest that
opposing effects of stress and/or depression and antidepressants on neurotrophic 
factor expression and signaling partly explain these effects. We also discuss
recent reports that suggest a possible role for glycogen synthase kinase 3 and
upstream wingless (Wnt)-frizzled (Fz) signaling pathways in mood disorders. New
studies also demonstrate that the rapid antidepressant actions of NMDA receptor
antagonists are associated with activation of glutamate transmission and
induction of synaptogenesis, providing novel targets for a new generation of
fast-acting, more efficacious therapeutic agents.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.004 
PMCID: PMC3278537
PMID: 22217452  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jan;35(1):36-46. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.009.

Mood-stabilizing drugs: mechanisms of action.

Schloesser RJ(1), Martinowich K, Manji HK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Maryland School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD, USA.

Mood-stabilizing drugs are the most widely prescribed pharmacological treatments 
for bipolar disorder, a disease characterized by recurrent episodes of mania and 
depression. Despite extensive clinical utilization, significant questions
concerning their mechanisms of action remain. In recent years, a diverse set of
molecular and cellular targets of these drugs has been identified. Based on these
findings, downstream effects on neural and synaptic plasticity within key
circuits have been proposed. Here, we discuss recent data, identify current
challenges impeding progress and define areas for future investigation. Further
understanding of the primary targets and downstream levels of convergence of
mood-stabilizing drugs will guide development of novel therapeutic strategies and
help translate discoveries into more effective treatments with less burdensome
adverse-effect profiles.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.009 
PMID: 22217451  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jan;35(1):1-2. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.004.

TiNS Special Issue: neuropsychiatric disorders.

Jurd R.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.12.004 
PMID: 22217450  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jan;35(1):3-13. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.007. Epub 2011 
Dec 16.

Genetic and cognitive windows into circuit mechanisms of psychiatric disease.

Arguello PA(1), Gogos JA.

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute and Department of Molecular Biology,
Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.

Accumulating evidence indicates substantial etiological and pathophysiological
heterogeneity as well as overlap within and across psychiatric disorders.
Moreover, it is uncertain at what level, besides gross behavior, mental illnesses
can be differentiated. To advance our understanding of psychiatric disease, we
advocate a more systematic approach in characterizing a small number of animal
models by utilizing unequivocal rare disease mutations and targeted cognitive
assessment to identify convergent disease circuits and mechanisms. Based on
available data, we discuss the possibility that the temporal dynamics of synaptic
plasticity play a central role in disease pathophysiology and that the extent and
manner in which they are altered in specific neural circuits determine the exact 
clinical phenotype of diverse disorders.

Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.007 
PMID: 22177981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jan;35(1):68-77. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.005. Epub 2011
Dec 15.

The neurobiology of anhedonia and other reward-related deficits.

Der-Avakian A(1), Markou A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of California San
Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0603, USA.

Anhedonia, or markedly diminished interest or pleasure, is a hallmark symptom of 
major depression, schizophrenia and other neuropsychiatric disorders. Over the
past three decades, the clinical definition of anhedonia has remained relatively 
unchanged, although cognitive psychology and behavioral neuroscience have
expanded our understanding of other reward-related processes. Here, we review the
neural bases of the construct of anhedonia that reflects deficits in hedonic
capacity and also closely linked to the constructs of reward valuation,
decision-making, anticipation and motivation. The neural circuits subserving
these reward-related processes include the ventral striatum, prefrontal cortical 
regions, and afferent and efferent projections. An understanding of anhedonia and
other reward-related constructs will facilitate the diagnosis and treatment of
disorders that include reward deficits as key symptoms.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.005 
PMCID: PMC3253139
PMID: 22177980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jan;35(1):14-23. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.008. Epub 2011
Dec 15.

The neurodevelopmental origins of suicidal behavior.

Turecki G(1), Ernst C, Jollant F, Labonté B, Mechawar N.

Author information: 
(1)McGill Group for Suicide Studies, Department of Psychiatry, McGill University,
Montreal, Canada. gustavo.turecki@mcgill.ca

Suicide and related behaviors are complex phenomena associated with different
risk factors. Although most individuals who display suicidal behavior do not have
a history of early-life adversity, a significant minority does. Recent animal and
human data have suggested that early-life adversity leads to epigenetic
regulation of genes involved in stress-response systems. Here, we review this
evidence and suggest that early-life adversity increases risk of suicide in
susceptible individuals by influencing the development of stable emotional,
behavioral and cognitive phenotypes that are likely to result from the epigenetic
regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis and other systems involved 
in responses to stress.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.11.008 
PMID: 22177979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jan;35(1):57-67. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.004. Epub 2011
Dec 6.

Cortical parvalbumin interneurons and cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia.

Lewis DA(1), Curley AA, Glausier JR, Volk DW.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroscience Program, Department of Psychiatry, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. lewisda@upmc.edu

Deficits in cognitive control, a core disturbance of schizophrenia, appear to
emerge from impaired prefrontal gamma oscillations. Cortical gamma oscillations
require strong inhibitory inputs to pyramidal neurons from the parvalbumin basket
cell (PVBC) class of GABAergic neurons. Recent findings indicate that
schizophrenia is associated with multiple pre- and postsynaptic abnormalities in 
PVBCs, each of which weakens their inhibitory control of pyramidal cells. These
findings suggest a new model of cortical dysfunction in schizophrenia in which
PVBC inhibition is decreased to compensate for an upstream deficit in pyramidal
cell excitation. This compensation is thought to rebalance cortical excitation
and inhibition, but at a level insufficient to generate the gamma oscillation
power required for high levels of cognitive control.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.10.004 
PMCID: PMC3253230
PMID: 22154068  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Trends Neurosci. 2012 Jan;35(1):24-35. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.007. Epub 2011
Jul 26.

Fear conditioning, synaptic plasticity and the amygdala: implications for
posttraumatic stress disorder.

Mahan AL(1), Ressler KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Behavioral Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral
Sciences, Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University School of
Medicine, 954 Gatewood Drive, Atlanta, GA 30329, USA.

Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is an anxiety disorder that can develop
after a traumatic experience such as domestic violence, natural disasters or
combat-related trauma. The cost of such disorders on society and the individual
can be tremendous. In this article, we review how the neural circuitry implicated
in PTSD in humans is related to the neural circuitry of fear. We then discuss how
fear conditioning is a suitable model for studying the molecular mechanisms of
the fear components that underlie PTSD, and the biology of fear conditioning with
a particular focus on the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-tyrosine
kinase B (TrkB), GABAergic and glutamatergic ligand-receptor systems. We then
summarize how such approaches might help to inform our understanding of PTSD and 
other stress-related disorders and provide insight to new pharmacological avenues
of treatment of PTSD.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.007 
PMCID: PMC3206195
PMID: 21798604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Dec;34(12):629-37. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.09.005. Epub
2011 Nov 1.

Src family kinases: modulators of neurotransmitter receptor function and
behavior.

Ohnishi H(1), Murata Y, Okazawa H, Matozaki T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Biosignal Sciences, Institute for Molecular and Cellular
Regulation, Gunma University, 3-39-15 Showa-Machi, Maebashi, Gunma 371-8512,
Japan. ohnishih@gunma-u.ac.jp

Src family kinases (SFKs) are non-receptor-type protein tyrosine kinases that
were originally identified as the products of proto-oncogenes and were
subsequently implicated in the regulation of cell proliferation and
differentiation in the developing mammalian brain. Recent studies using
transgenic mouse models have demonstrated that SFKs that are highly expressed in 
the adult brain regulate neuronal plasticity and behavior through tyrosine
phosphorylation of key substrates such as neurotransmitter receptors. Here, we
provide an overview of these recent studies, as well as discussing how modulation
of the endocytosis of neurotransmitter receptors by SFKs contributes, in part, to
this regulation. Deregulation of SFK-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of such
substrates might underlie certain brain disorders.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.09.005 
PMID: 22051158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Dec;34(12):611-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.09.003. Epub
2011 Oct 22.

New insights into the relationship between dopamine, beta oscillations and motor 
function.

Jenkinson N(1), Brown P.

Author information: 
(1)Nuffield Department of Clinical Neuroscience, University of Oxford, John
Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, OX3 9DU, UK.

Synchronised neuronal oscillations at beta frequencies are prevalent in the human
motor system, but their function is unclear. In this Opinion article, we propose 
that the levels of beta oscillations provide a measure of the likelihood that a
new voluntary action will need to be actuated. Oscillatory beta activity is in
turn modulated by net dopamine levels at sites of cortical input to the basal
ganglia. We hypothesise that net dopamine levels are modulated in response to
salient internal and external cues. Crucially, the resulting modulation of beta
activity is predictive, enabling the appropriate prospective resourcing and
preparation of potential actions. Loss of dopamine, as in Parkinson's disease,
annuls this function, unless net dopaminergic activity can be elevated through
medication.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.09.003 
PMID: 22018805  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Dec;34(12):646-56. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.09.001. Epub
2011 Oct 22.

Caspase-6 and neurodegeneration.

Graham RK(1), Ehrnhoefer DE, Hayden MR.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Molecular Medicine and Therapeutics, Child and Family Research
Institute, Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia,
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada V5Z 4H4.

Caspases are cysteine-aspartic proteases that post-translationally modify their
substrates through cleavage at specific sites, which causes either substrate
inactivation or a gain of function through the generation of active fragments.
Currently, each caspase is categorized as either an initiator of apoptosis or an 
end-stage executioner. Caspase-6 was originally identified as an executioner
caspase owing to its role in cleavage of nuclear lamins. However, it has since
been shown that caspase-6 cleaves caspases-2, 3 and 8. Furthermore, active
caspase-6 is present in post mortem brains of Huntington and Alzheimer disease
subjects that do not yet display apoptotic morphology, which suggests a function 
distinct from its well-validated executioner role. In this review, we discuss
evidence to date regarding the role of caspase-6 in neurodegeneration. The
findings suggest that selective inhibitors of caspase-6 may have therapeutic
potential for various neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.09.001 
PMID: 22018804  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Dec;34(12):619-28. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.09.002. Epub
2011 Oct 13.

Death receptor signalling in central nervous system inflammation and
demyelination.

Mc Guire C(1), Beyaert R, van Loo G.

Author information: 
(1)Department for Molecular Biomedical Research, Unit of Molecular Signal
Transduction in Inflammation, VIB, B-9052 Ghent, Belgium.

Death receptors (DRs) are members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNF-R)
superfamily that are characterised by the presence of a conserved intracellular
death domain and are able to trigger a signalling pathway leading to apoptosis.
Strong evidence suggests that DRs contribute to the pathology of tissue
destructive diseases, including multiple sclerosis (MS), the most common
inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Here, we 
review the evidence supporting a role for DRs in MS pathology and its
implications for the development of therapeutic strategies for MS and other
demyelinating pathologies of the CNS.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.09.002 
PMID: 21999927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Dec;34(12):638-45. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.002. Epub
2011 Aug 26.

Organization and development of direction-selective circuits in the retina.

Wei W(1), Feller MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology and the Helen Wills Neuroscience
Institute, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.

The direction-selective circuit in the retina extracts the directional
information of image motion in the visual scene. It is a classic model for neural
circuit analysis because its input and output are well-defined and accessible to 
physiological measurements. However, the neural basis of direction selectivity is
still not fully understood. Indeed, this ostensibly simple computation arises
from a collection of complex neural mechanisms at all levels of circuit
organization. In this review, we describe recent advances in genetic, imaging and
optogenetic techniques that have improved our understanding of the synaptic
organization and development underlying retinal direction selectivity.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.002 
PMCID: PMC4538999
PMID: 21872944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Nov;34(11):561-71. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.004. Epub
2011 Oct 6.

Origins of landmark encoding in the brain.

Yoder RM(1), Clark BJ, Taube JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Center for Cognitive
Neuroscience, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, USA.

The ability to perceive one's position and directional heading relative to
landmarks is necessary for successful navigation within an environment. Recent
studies have shown that the visual system dominantly controls the neural
representations of directional heading and location when familiar visual cues are
available, and several neural circuits, or streams, have been proposed to be
crucial for visual information processing. Here, we summarize the evidence that
the dorsal presubiculum (also known as the postsubiculum) is critically important
for the direct transfer of visual landmark information to spatial signals within 
the limbic system.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.004 
PMCID: PMC3200508
PMID: 21982585  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Nov;34(11):599-609. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.005. Epub
2011 Sep 30.

Emerging roles of resolvins in the resolution of inflammation and pain.

Ji RR(1), Xu ZZ, Strichartz G, Serhan CN.

Author information: 
(1)Pain Research Center, Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain
Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA
02115, USA. rrji@zeus.bwh.harvard.edu

Resolvins, including D and E series resolvins, are endogenous lipid mediators
generated during the resolution phase of acute inflammation from the omega-3
polyunsaturated fatty acids docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) and eicosapentaenoic acid 
(EPA). Resolvins have potent anti-inflammatory and pro-resolution actions in
several animal models of inflammation. Recent findings also demonstrate that
resolvin E1 and resolvin D1 can each potently dampen inflammatory and
postoperative pain. This review focuses on the mechanisms by which resolvins act 
on their receptors in immune cells and neurons to normalize exaggerated pain via 
regulation of inflammatory mediators, transient receptor potential (TRP) ion
channels, and spinal cord synaptic transmission. Resolvins may offer novel
therapeutic approaches for preventing and treating pain conditions associated
with inflammation.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.005 
PMCID: PMC3200462
PMID: 21963090  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Nov;34(11):591-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.007. Epub
2011 Sep 30.

Arc in synaptic plasticity: from gene to behavior.

Korb E(1), Finkbeiner S.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, San Francisco, CA, USA.

The activity-regulated cytoskeletal (Arc) gene encodes a protein that is critical
for memory consolidation. Arc is one of the most tightly regulated molecules
known: neuronal activity controls Arc mRNA induction, trafficking and
accumulation, and Arc protein production, localization and stability. Arc
regulates synaptic strength through multiple mechanisms and is involved in
essentially every known form of synaptic plasticity. It also mediates memory
formation and is implicated in multiple neurological diseases. In this review, we
will discuss how Arc is regulated and used as a tool to study neuronal activity. 
We will also attempt to clarify how its molecular functions correspond to its
requirement in various forms of plasticity, discuss Arc's role in behavior and
disease, and highlight critical unresolved questions.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.007 
PMCID: PMC3207967
PMID: 21963089  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Nov;34(11):581-90. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.003. Epub
2011 Sep 29.

Multiple system atrophy: a clinical and neuropathological perspective.

Ubhi K(1), Low P, Masliah E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego/La Jolla, CA,
USA, USA.

Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a neurodegenerative disease involving motor
abnormalities that include akinesia, rigidity and postural instability. While
improved diagnostic criteria have aided the accurate diagnosis of MSA, our
understanding of the neuropathological aspects underlying MSA was bolstered by
the identification of α-synuclein (α-syn) as the primary constituent of the
abnormal protein aggregates observed in the brains of MSA patients. The
generation of transgenic animal models of MSA coupled with an increasing
understanding of the biochemical structure and function of α-syn has highlighted 
a number of key pathological pathways thought to underlie the neurodegeneration
observed in MSA. This review summarizes key findings in the field, discusses
current areas of debate, and describes current experimental approaches towards
disease-modifying therapies.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.003 
PMCID: PMC3200496
PMID: 21962754  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Nov;34(11):572-80. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.001. Epub
2011 Aug 3.

Intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells: many subtypes, diverse
functions.

Schmidt TM(1), Chen SK, Hattar S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21218, USA.
TMSchmidt@jhu.edu

For decades, rods and cones were thought to be the only photoreceptors in the
mammalian retina. However, a population of atypical photoreceptive retinal
ganglion cells (RGCs) expresses the photopigment melanopsin and is intrinsically 
photosensitive (ipRGCs). These ipRGCs are crucial for relaying light information 
from the retina to the brain to control circadian photoentrainment, pupillary
light reflex, and sleep. ipRGCs were initially described as a uniform population 
involved solely in signaling irradiance for non-image forming functions. Recent
work, however, has uncovered that ipRGCs are unexpectedly diverse at the
molecular, cellular and functional levels, and could even be involved in image
formation. This review summarizes our current understanding of the diversity of
ipRGCs and their various roles in modulating behavior.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.001 
PMCID: PMC3200463
PMID: 21816493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Oct;34(10):499-500. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.008.

TiNS Special Issue: Hippocampus and Memory.

Jurd R.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.008 
PMID: 21943493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Oct;34(10):501-3. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.006. Epub
2011 Sep 13.

The Brain Prize 2011: From Microcircuit Organization to Constellations of Brain
Rhythms.

Soltesz I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Anatomy & Neurobiology, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA
92697-1280, USA. isoltesz@uci.edu

The Grete Lundbeck European Brain Research Foundation awarded the inaugural Brain
Prize 2011 to Péter Somogyi, Tamás Freund and György Buzsáki 'for their
wide-ranging, technically and conceptually brilliant research on the functional
organization of neuronal circuits in the cerebral cortex, especially in the
hippocampus, a region that is crucial for certain forms of memory'. The present
article highlights key findings and major conceptual contributions by these three
scientists that were recognized by the award.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.006 
PMCID: PMC3392082
PMID: 21917323  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Oct;34(10):548-59. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.001. Epub
2011 Sep 1.

The hippocampal-striatal axis in learning, prediction and goal-directed behavior.

Pennartz CM(1), Ito R, Verschure PF, Battaglia FP, Robbins TW.

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive and Systems Neuroscience Group, Swammerdam Institute for Life
Sciences, Center for Neuroscience, Sciencepark 904, 1098 XH, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands. c.m.a.pennartz@uva.nl

The hippocampal formation and striatum subserve declarative and procedural
memory, respectively. However, experimental evidence suggests that the ventral
striatum, as opposed to the dorsal striatum, does not lend itself to being part
of either system. Instead, it may constitute a system integrating inputs from the
amygdala, prefrontal cortex and hippocampus to generate motivational,
outcome-predicting signals that invigorate goal-directed behaviors. Inspired by
reinforcement learning models, we suggest an alternative scheme for computational
functions of the striatum. Dorsal and ventral striatum are proposed to compute
outcome predictions largely in parallel, using different types of information as 
input. The nature of the inputs to striatum is furthermore combinatorial, and the
specificity of predictions transcends the level of scalar value signals,
incorporating episodic information.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.08.001 
PMID: 21889806  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Oct;34(10):526-35. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.007. Epub
2011 Aug 29.

Updating hippocampal representations: CA2 joins the circuit.

Jones MW(1), McHugh TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience, School of Physiology & Pharmacology, University of
Bristol, Medical Sciences Building, University Walk, Bristol, BS8 1TD, UK.
matt.jones@bristol.ac.uk

The hippocampus integrates the encoding, storage and recall of memories, binding 
the spatio-temporal and sensory information that constitutes experience and
keeping episodes in their correct context. The rapid and accurate processing of
such daunting volumes of continuously changing data relies on dynamically
assigning different aspects of mnemonic processing to specialized, interconnected
networks corresponding to the anatomical subfields of dentate gyrus (DG), CA3 and
CA1. However, differentially processed information ultimately has to be
reintegrated into conjunctive representations, and this is unlikely to be
achieved by unidirectional, sequential steps through a DG-CA3-CA1 loop. In this
Review, we highlight recently discovered anatomical and physiological features
that are likely to necessitate updates to the hippocampal circuit diagram,
particularly by incorporating the oft-neglected CA2 region.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.007 
PMID: 21880379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Oct;34(10):536-47. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.006. Epub
2011 Aug 17.

A neoHebbian framework for episodic memory; role of dopamine-dependent late LTP.

Lisman J(1), Grace AA, Duzel E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Volen Center for Complex Systems, Brandeis
University, Waltham, MA 02454-9110, USA. Lisman@brandeis.edu

According to the Hebb rule, the change in the strength of a synapse depends only 
on the local interaction of presynaptic and postsynaptic events. Studies at many 
types of synapses indicate that the early phase of long-term potentiation (LTP)
has Hebbian properties. However, it is now clear that the Hebb rule does not
account for late LTP; this requires an additional signal that is non-local. For
novel information and motivational events such as rewards this signal at
hippocampal CA1 synapses is mediated by the neuromodulator, dopamine. In this
Review we discuss recent experimental findings that support the view that this
'neoHebbian' framework can account for memory behavior in a variety of learning
situations.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.006 
PMCID: PMC3183413
PMID: 21851992  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Oct;34(10):515-25. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.006. Epub
2011 Jul 23.

Pattern separation in the hippocampus.

Yassa MA(1), Stark CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD 21218, USA. yassa@jhu.edu

The ability to discriminate among similar experiences is a crucial feature of
episodic memory. This ability has long been hypothesized to require the
hippocampus, and computational models suggest that it is dependent on pattern
separation. However, empirical data for the role of the hippocampus in pattern
separation have not been available until recently. This review summarizes data
from electrophysiological recordings, lesion studies, immediate-early gene
imaging, transgenic mouse models, as well as human functional neuroimaging, that 
provide convergent evidence for the involvement of particular hippocampal
subfields in this key process. We discuss the impact of aging and adult
neurogenesis on pattern separation, and also highlight several challenges to
linking across species and approaches, and suggest future directions for
investigation.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.006 
PMCID: PMC3183227
PMID: 21788086  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Oct;34(10):504-14. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.003. Epub
2011 Aug 20.

An opportunistic theory of cellular and systems consolidation.

Mednick SC(1), Cai DJ, Shuman T, Anagnostaras S, Wixted JT.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, San Diego, Department of Psychiatry 9116a, 3350 La
Jolla Village Drive, San Diego, CA 92116, USA. smednick@ucsd.edu

Memories are often classified as hippocampus dependent or independent, and sleep 
has been found to facilitate both, but in different ways. In this Opinion, we
explore the optimal neural state for cellular and systems consolidation of
hippocampus-dependent memories that benefit from sleep. We suggest that these two
kinds of consolidation, which are ordinarily treated separately, overlap in time 
and jointly benefit from a period of reduced interference (during which no new
memories are formed). Conditions that result in reduced interference include slow
wave sleep (SWS), NMDA receptor antagonists, benzodiazepines, alcohol and
acetylcholine antagonists. We hypothesize that the consolidation of
hippocampal-dependent memories might not depend on SWS per se. Instead, the brain
opportunistically consolidates previously encoded memories whenever the
hippocampus is not otherwise occupied by the task of encoding new memories.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.


PMCID: PMC3183157
PMID: 21742389  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Sep;34(9):443-51. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.004. Epub
2011 Aug 16.

How does morphology relate to function in sensory arbors?

Hall DH(1), Treinin M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New
York 10461, USA.

Sensory dendrites fall into many different morphological and functional classes. 
Polymodal nociceptors are one subclass of sensory neurons, which are of
particular note owing to their elaborate dendritic arbors. Complex developmental 
programs are required to form these arbors and there is striking conservation of 
morphology, function and molecular determinants between vertebrate and
invertebrate polymodal nociceptors. Based on these studies, we argue that arbor
morphology plays an important role in the function of polymodal nociceptors.
Similar associations between form and function might explain the plethora of
dendrite morphologies seen among all sensory neurons.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.004 
PMCID: PMC3166259
PMID: 21840610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Sep;34(9):464-73. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.002. Epub
2011 Aug 15.

What can mice tell us about how vision works?

Huberman AD(1), Niell CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA 
92093, USA. ahuberman@ucsd.edu

Understanding the neural basis of visual perception is a long-standing
fundamental goal of neuroscience. Historically, most vision studies were carried 
out on humans, macaques and cats. Over the past 5 years, however, a growing
number of researchers have begun using mice to parse the mechanisms underlying
visual processing; the rationale is that, despite having relatively poor acuity, 
mice are unmatched in terms of the variety and sophistication of tools available 
to label, monitor and manipulate specific cell types and circuits. In this
review, we discuss recent advances in understanding the mouse visual system at
the anatomical, receptive field and perceptual level, focusing on the
opportunities and constraints those features provide toward the goal of
understanding how vision works.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.002 
PMCID: PMC3371366
PMID: 21840069  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Sep;34(9):452-63. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.005. Epub
2011 Aug 15.

Synaptic plasticity in sleep: learning, homeostasis and disease.

Wang G(1), Grone B, Colas D, Appelbaum L, Mourrain P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Center for Sleep Sciences,
Beckman Center, Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA 94305, USA.

Sleep is a fundamental and evolutionarily conserved aspect of animal life. Recent
studies have shed light on the role of sleep in synaptic plasticity.
Demonstrations of memory replay and synapse homeostasis suggest that one
essential role of sleep is in the consolidation and optimization of synaptic
circuits to retain salient memory traces despite the noise of daily experience.
Here, we review this recent evidence and suggest that sleep creates a heightened 
state of plasticity, which may be essential for this optimization. Furthermore,
we discuss how sleep deficits seen in diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and
autism spectrum disorders might not just reflect underlying circuit malfunction, 
but could also play a direct role in the progression of those disorders.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.005 
PMCID: PMC3385863
PMID: 21840068  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Sep;34(9):487-97. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.003. Epub
2011 Aug 9.

Multiple Ca2+ sensors in secretion: teammates, competitors or autocrats?

Walter AM(1), Groffen AJ, Sørensen JB, Verhage M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Functional Genomics, Center for Neurogenomics and Cognitive
Research, Neuroscience Campus Amsterdam, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam and VU
Medical Center, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Regulated neurotransmitter secretion depends on Ca(2+) sensors, C2 domain
proteins that associate with phospholipids and soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive
fusion attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complexes to trigger release upon
Ca(2+) binding. Ca(2+) sensors are thought to prevent spontaneous fusion at rest 
(clamping) and to promote fusion upon Ca(2+) activation. At least eight, often
coexpressed, Ca(2+) sensors have been identified in mammals. Accumulating
evidence suggests that multiple Ca(2+) sensors interact, rather than work
autonomously, to produce the complex secretory response observed in neurons and
secretory cells. In this review, we present several working models to describe
how different sensors might be arranged to mediate synchronous, asynchronous and 
spontaneous neurotransmitter release. We discuss the scenario that different
Ca(2+) sensors typically act on one shared vesicle pool and compete for binding
the multiple SNARE complexes that are likely to assemble at single vesicles, to
exert both clamping and fusion-promoting functions.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.07.003 
PMID: 21831459  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Sep;34(9):474-86. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.005. Epub
2011 Jul 19.

Emerging roles for cholesterol in Huntington's disease.

Valenza M(1), Cattaneo E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacological Sciences and Centre for Stem Cell Research,
Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy.

Recent findings suggest that alterations in cholesterol homeostasis might be
associated with Huntington's disease (HD). Although alterations in cholesterol
content have been detected in cell models and several rodent models of HD, it is 
currently unclear what the potential mechanisms underlying cholesterol
perturbations are. Furthermore, it remains to be determined whether these
observed changes in cholesterol homeostasis are involved in the pathogenesis of
HD or occur as a secondary event. In this review, we provide an overview of
current studies that have begun to address these issues and discuss recent
findings suggesting that normal huntingtin protein might participate in
regulating cholesterol biosynthesis. A better understanding of how alterations in
cholesterol levels contribute to the pathophysiology of HD is likely to have
significant therapeutic implications for the treatment of this debilitating
neurodegenerative disorder.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.005 
PMID: 21774998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Aug;34(8):411-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.001. Epub
2011 Jul 20.

Neurobiology of the incubation of drug craving.

Pickens CL(1), Airavaara M, Theberge F, Fanous S, Hope BT, Shaham Y.

Author information: 
(1)Intramural Research Program, National Institute on Drug Addiction (NIDA),
National Institute of Health (NIH), 251 Bayview Blvd, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

It was suggested in 1986 that cue-induced drug craving in cocaine addicts
progressively increases over the first several weeks of abstinence and remains
high for extended periods. During the past decade, investigators have identified 
an analogous incubation phenomenon in rodents, in which time-dependent increases 
in cue-induced drug seeking are observed after withdrawal from intravenous
cocaine self-administration. Such an incubation of drug craving is not specific
to cocaine, as similar findings have been observed after self-administration of
heroin, nicotine, methamphetamine and alcohol in rats. In this review, we discuss
recent results that have identified important brain regions involved in the
incubation of drug craving, as well as evidence for the underlying cellular
mechanisms. Understanding the neurobiology of the incubation of drug craving in
rodents is likely to have significant implications for furthering understanding
of brain mechanisms and circuits that underlie craving and relapse in human
addicts.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.001 
PMCID: PMC3152666
PMID: 21764143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Aug;34(8):421-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.002.

More than being protective: functional roles for TGF-β/activin signaling pathways
at central synapses.

Krieglstein K(1), Zheng F, Unsicker K, Alzheimer C.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University of Freiburg, 79104 Freiburg,
Germany.

It is becoming increasingly clear that members of the transforming growth
factor-β (TGF-β) family have roles in the central nervous system that extend
beyond their well-established roles as neurotrophic and neuroprotective factors. 
Recent findings have indicated that the TGF-β signaling pathways are involved in 
the modulation of both excitatory and inhibitory synaptic transmission in the
adult mammalian brain. In this review, we discuss how TGF-β, bone morphogenetic
protein and activin signaling at central synapses modulate synaptic plasticity,
cognition and affective behavior. We also discuss the implications of these
findings for the molecular understanding and potential treatment of
neuropsychiatric diseases, such as anxiety, depression and other neurological
disorders.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.002 
PMID: 21742388  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Aug;34(8):393-400. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.004. Epub
2011 Jul 7.

The axo-myelinic synapse.

Stys PK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University of
Calgary, 3330 Hospital Drive NW, Calgary, AB, T2N 4N1, Canada. pstys@ucalgary.ca

Axons have evolved to acquire myelination, enabling denser packing and speedier
transmission. Although myelin is considered a passive insulator, recent reports
suggest a more dynamic role. Axons, in turn, are endowed with neurotransmitter
release and uptake systems along their trunks. Based on these observations, I
argue that there may exist a new type of chemical synapse between axon and
myelin, one that supports activity-dependent communication between the two. This 
raises intriguing possibilities of dynamic fine-tuning of the myelin sheath even 
in adulthood, efficient recruitment of resources for myelin maintenance and
bi-directional signaling, whereby the axon informs its myelinating cell of its
metabolic needs proportionally to the electrical traffic it is transmitting. This
would also have implications for de- and dysmyelinating diseases should this
axo-myelinic synapse become dysfunctional.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.06.004 
PMID: 21741098  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Aug;34(8):401-10. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.006. Epub
2011 Jun 30.

Clarifying lysosomal storage diseases.

Schultz ML(1), Tecedor L, Chang M, Davidson BL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA.

Lysosomal storage diseases (LSDs) are a class of metabolic disorders caused by
mutations in proteins critical for lysosomal function. Such proteins include
lysosomal enzymes, lysosomal integral membrane proteins, and proteins involved in
the post-translational modification and trafficking of lysosomal proteins. There 
are many recognized forms of LSDs and, although individually rare, their combined
prevalence is estimated to be 1 in 8000 births. Over two-thirds of LSDs involve
central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction (progressive cognitive and motor
decline) and these symptoms are often the most debilitating. Although the genetic
basis for these disorders is clear and the biochemistry of the proteins well
understood, the cellular mechanisms by which deficiencies in these proteins
disrupt neuronal viability remain ambiguous. In this review, we provide an
overview of the widespread cellular perturbations occurring in LSDs, how they
might be linked and interventions that may specifically or globally correct those
defects.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.006 
PMCID: PMC3153126
PMID: 21723623  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Aug;34(8):430-42. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.005. Epub
2011 Jun 21.

Neuroimaging markers for the prediction and early diagnosis of Alzheimer's
disease dementia.

Ewers M(1), Sperling RA, Klunk WE, Weiner MW, Hampel H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, University of California San Francisco, San
Francisco, CA, USA. michael.ewers@ucsf.edu

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive age-related neurodegenerative disease. 
At the time of clinical manifestation of dementia, significant irreversible brain
damage is already present, rendering the diagnosis of AD at early stages of the
disease an urgent prerequisite for therapeutic treatment to halt, or at least
slow, disease progression. In this review, we discuss various neuroimaging
measures that are proving to have potential value as biomarkers of AD pathology
for the detection and prediction of AD before the onset of dementia. Recent
studies that have identified AD-like structural and functional brain changes in
elderly people who are cognitively within the normal range or who have mild
cognitive impairment (MCI) are discussed. A dynamic sequence model of changes
that occur in neuroimaging markers during the different disease stages is
presented and the predictive value of multimodal neuroimaging for AD dementia is 
considered.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.005 
PMCID: PMC3275347
PMID: 21696834  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jul;34(7):370-82. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.004. Epub
2011 Jun 24.

Balancing act: deubiquitinating enzymes in the nervous system.

Todi SV(1), Paulson HL.

Author information: 
(1)Wayne State University School of Medicine, Department of Pharmacology and
Department of Neurology, 540 E Canfield, Scott Hall Room 6105, Detroit, Michigan 
48201, USA.

Many pathways important to the nervous system are regulated by the
post-translational conjugation of ubiquitin to target proteins. The reversal of
ubiquitination, or deubiquitination, is equally critical to neuronal function. By
countering protein ubiquitination, deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) help control
neuronal fate determination, axonal pathfinding and synaptic communication and
plasticity. The significance of DUBs to the nervous system is underscored by
links to various neurological diseases. Owing to cell type or substrate
specificity, certain DUBs might also represent therapeutic targets for
neurodegeneration. Here, we review recent findings that have shaped our current
understanding of emerging functions for DUBs in the nervous system.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.004 
PMCID: PMC3193880
PMID: 21704388  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jul;34(7):339-48. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.002. Epub
2011 Jun 22.

TDP-43 and FUS: a nuclear affair.

Dormann D(1), Haass C.

Author information: 
(1)Adolf-Butenandt-Institute, Biochemistry, Ludwig-Maximilians-University and
German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Munich, Schillerstr. 44,
80336 Munich, Germany.

Misfolded TAR DNA binding protein 43 (TDP-43) and Fused-In-Sarcoma (FUS) protein 
have recently been identified as pathological hallmarks of the neurodegenerative 
disorders amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar
degeneration (FTLD) characterized by the presence of ubiquitin-positive
inclusions (FTLD-U). Although TDP-43 and FUS are normally located predominantly
in the nucleus, pathological TDP-43 and FUS inclusions are mostly found in the
cytosol. Cytosolic deposition is paralleled by a striking nuclear depletion of
either protein. Based on a number of recent findings, we postulate that defects
in nuclear import are an important step towards TDP-43 and FUS dysfunction.
Failure of nuclear transport can arise from mutations within a nuclear
localization signal or from age-related decline of nuclear import mechanisms. We 
propose that nuclear import defects in combination with additional hits, for
example cellular stress and genetic risk factors, may be a central underlying
cause of ALS and FTLD-U pathology.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.002 
PMID: 21700347  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jul;34(7):383-92. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.001. Epub
2011 Jun 21.

Historical and current perspective on tobacco use and nicotine addiction.

Dani JA(1), Balfour DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center on Addiction, Learning, Memory, Department of Neuroscience, Menninger
Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, Baylor College of Medicine,
Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Although the addictive influence of tobacco was recognized very early, the modern
concepts of nicotine addiction have relied on knowledge of cholinergic
neurotransmission and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). The discovery
of the 'receptive substance' by Langley, that would turn out to be nAChRs, and
'Vagusstoff' (acetylcholine) by Loewi, coincided with an exciting time when the
concept of chemical synaptic transmission was being formulated. More recently,
the application of more powerful techniques and the study of animal models that
replicate key features of nicotine dependence have led to important advancements 
in our understanding of molecular, cellular and systems mechanisms of nicotine
addiction. In this review, we present a historical perspective and overview of
the research that has led to our present understanding of nicotine addiction.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.001 
PMCID: PMC3193858
PMID: 21696833  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jul;34(7):349-58. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.003. Epub
2011 Jun 12.

Cell autonomy and synchrony of suprachiasmatic nucleus circadian oscillators.

Mohawk JA(1), Takahashi JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of 
Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390-9111, USA.

The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus is the site of the master
circadian pacemaker in mammals. The individual cells of the SCN are capable of
functioning independently from one another and therefore must form a cohesive
circadian network through intercellular coupling. The network properties of the
SCN lead to coordination of circadian rhythms among its neurons and neuronal
subpopulations. There is increasing evidence for multiple interconnected
oscillators within the SCN, and in this review we will highlight recent advances 
in our knowledge of the complex organization and function of the cellular and
network-level SCN clock. Understanding the way in which synchrony is achieved
between cells in the SCN will provide insight into the means by which this
important nucleus orchestrates circadian rhythms throughout the organism.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.05.003 
PMCID: PMC3775330
PMID: 21665298  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jul;34(7):359-69. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.03.002. Epub
2011 Apr 4.

Shaping the synaptic signal: molecular mobility inside and outside the cleft.

Rusakov DA(1), Savtchenko LP, Zheng K, Henley JM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurology, University College London, Queen Square, London WC1
3BG, UK.

Rapid communication in the brain relies on the release and diffusion of small
transmitter molecules across the synaptic cleft. How these diffuse signals are
transformed into cellular responses is determined by the scatter of target
postsynaptic receptors, which in turn depends on receptor movement in cell
membranes. Thus, by shaping information transfer in neural circuits, mechanisms
that regulate molecular mobility affect nearly every aspect of brain function and
dysfunction. Here we review two facets of molecular mobility that have
traditionally been considered separately, namely extracellular and intra-membrane
diffusion. By focusing on the interplay between these processes we illustrate the
remarkable versatility of signal formation in synapses and highlight areas of
emerging understanding in the molecular physiology and biophysics of synaptic
transmission.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.03.002 
PMCID: PMC3133640
PMID: 21470699  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jun;34(6):326-37. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.03.004. Epub
2011 May 17.

Presynaptic function in health and disease.

Waites CL(1), Garner CC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Nancy Pritzker Laboratory,
Stanford University School of Medicine, 1201 Welch Rd. Palo Alto, CA 94304-5485, 
USA.

Neurons communicate with one another at specialized contact sites called
synapses, composed of pre- and postsynaptic compartments. Presynaptic
compartments, or 'boutons', signal to the postsynaptic compartment by releasing
chemical neurotransmitter in response to incoming electrical impulses. Recent
studies link defects in the function of presynaptic boutons to the etiology of
several neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases, including autism,
schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. In this review, we describe five core
functions of presynaptic boutons and the molecules that mediate these functions, 
focusing on a subset that are linked to human disease. We also discuss potential 
mechanisms through which the loss or alteration of these specific molecules could
lead to defects in synaptic communication, neural circuit function and,
ultimately, cognition and behavior.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.03.004 
PMID: 21596448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jun;34(6):293-303. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.04.001. Epub
2011 May 17.

Angelman syndrome: insights into genomic imprinting and neurodevelopmental
phenotypes.

Mabb AM(1), Judson MC, Zylka MJ, Philpot BD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Physiology, UNC Neuroscience Center,
University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.

Angelman syndrome (AS) is a severe genetic disorder caused by mutations or
deletions of the maternally inherited UBE3A gene. UBE3A encodes an E3 ubiquitin
ligase that is expressed biallelically in most tissues but is maternally
expressed in almost all neurons. In this review, we describe recent advances in
understanding the expression and function of UBE3A in the brain and the etiology 
of AS. We highlight current AS model systems, epigenetic mechanisms of UBE3A
regulation, and the identification of potential UBE3A substrates in the brain. In
the process, we identify major gaps in our knowledge that, if bridged, could move
us closer to identifying treatments for this debilitating neurodevelopmental
disorder.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.04.001 
PMCID: PMC3116240
PMID: 21592595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jun;34(6):283-92. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.03.005. Epub
2011 May 5.

Placing prediction into the fear circuit.

McNally GP(1), Johansen JP, Blair HT.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, The University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW,
Australia. g.mcnally@unsw.edu.au

Pavlovian fear conditioning depends on synaptic plasticity at amygdala neurons.
Here, we review recent electrophysiological, molecular and behavioral evidence
suggesting the existence of a distributed neural circuitry regulating amygdala
synaptic plasticity during fear learning. This circuitry, which involves
projections from the midbrain periaqueductal gray region, can be linked to
prediction error and expectation modulation of fear learning, as described by
associative and computational learning models. It controls whether, and how much,
fear learning occurs by signaling aversive events when they are unexpected.
Functional neuroimaging and clinical studies indicate that this prediction
circuit is recruited in humans during fear learning and contributes to
exposure-based treatments for clinical anxiety. This aversive prediction error
circuit might represent a conserved mechanism for regulating fear learning in
mammals.

Crown Copyright © 2011. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.03.005 
PMCID: PMC4245078
PMID: 21549434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jun;34(6):304-15. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.03.003. Epub
2011 Apr 18.

Supply and demand for endocannabinoids.

Alger BE(1), Kim J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 655 West 
Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. balgerlab@gmail.com

The endocannabinoid system consists of G-protein-coupled cannabinoid receptors
that can be activated by cannabis-derived drugs and small lipids termed
endocannabinoids (eCBs) plus associated biochemical machinery (precursors,
synthetic and degradative enzymes, transporters). The eCB system in the brain
primarily influences neuronal synaptic communication, and affects biological
functions - including eating, anxiety, learning and memory, growth and
development - via an array of actions throughout the nervous system. Although
many aspects of synaptic regulation by eCBs are becoming clear, details of the
subcellular organization and regulation of the eCB system are less well
understood. This review focuses on recent investigations that illuminate
fundamental issues of eCB storage, release, and functional roles.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.03.003 
PMCID: PMC3106144
PMID: 21507493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jun;34(6):316-25. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.03.001. Epub
2011 Apr 2.

Regulation of neural process growth, elaboration and structural plasticity by
NF-κB.

Gutierrez H(1), Davies AM.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiff School of Biosciences, University of Cardiff, Biomedical Sciences
Building 3, Cardiff CF10 3AT, UK.

The nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-κB) family of transcription factors has recently
emerged as a major regulator of the growth and elaboration of neural processes.
NF-κB signaling has been implicated in controlling axon initiation, elongation,
guidance and branching and in regulating dendrite arbor size and complexity
during development and dendritic spine density in the adult. NF-κB is activated
by a variety of extracellular signals, and either promotes or inhibits growth
depending on the phosphorylation status of the p65 NF-κB subunit. These novel
roles for NF-κB, together with recent evidence implicating NF-κB in the
regulation of neurogenesis in the embryo and adult, have important implications
for neural development and for learning and memory in the mature nervous system.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.03.001 
PMCID: PMC3115056
PMID: 21459462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Trends Neurosci. 2011 May;34(5):225-36. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.007. Epub
2011 Apr 2.

Dissecting functional connectivity of neuronal microcircuits: experimental and
theoretical insights.

Feldt S(1), Bonifazi P, Cossart R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) Unité 901, 
Marseille, 13009, France.

Structure-function studies of neuronal networks have recently benefited from
considerable progress in different areas of investigation. Advances in molecular 
genetics and imaging have allowed for the dissection of neuronal connectivity
with unprecedented detail whereas in vivo recordings are providing much needed
clues as to how sensory, motor and cognitive function is encoded in neuronal
firing. However, bridging the gap between the cellular and behavioral levels will
ultimately require an understanding of the functional organization of the
underlying neuronal circuits. One way to unravel the complexity of neuronal
networks is to understand how their connectivity emerges during brain maturation.
In this review, we will describe how graph theory provides experimentalists with 
novel concepts that can be used to describe and interpret these developing
connectivity schemes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.007 
PMID: 21459463  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Trends Neurosci. 2011 May;34(5):237-46. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.006. Epub
2011 Mar 24.

Regulation of transmitter release by Ca(2+) and synaptotagmin: insights from a
large CNS synapse.

Kochubey O(1), Lou X, Schneggenburger R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Synaptic Mechanisms, Brain Mind Institute, École Polytechnique
Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Transmitter release at synapses is driven by elevated intracellular Ca(2+)
concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) near the sites of vesicle fusion. [Ca(2+)](i) signals
of profoundly different amplitude and kinetics drive the phasic release component
during a presynaptic action potential, and asynchronous release at later times.
Studies using direct control of [Ca(2+)](i) at a large glutamatergic terminal,
the calyx of Held, have provided significant insight into how intracellular
Ca(2+) regulates transmitter release over a wide concentration range.
Synaptotagmin-2 (Syt2), the major isoform of the Syt1/2 Ca(2+) sensors at these
synapses, triggers highly Ca(2+)-cooperative release above 1μM [Ca(2+)](i), but
suppresses release at low [Ca(2+)](i). Thus, neurons utilize a highly
sophisticated release apparatus to maximize the dynamic range of Ca(2+)-evoked
versus spontaneous release.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.006 
PMID: 21439657  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Trends Neurosci. 2011 May;34(5):258-68. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.004. Epub
2011 Mar 21.

Routes, destinations and delays: recent advances in AMPA receptor trafficking.

Henley JM(1), Barker EA, Glebov OO.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Synaptic Plasticity, School of Biochemistry, University of
Bristol, University Walk, Bristol, UK, BS8 1TD. j.m.henley@bristol.ac.uk

Postsynaptic AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs) mediate most fast excitatory 
synaptic transmission and are crucial for many aspects of brain function,
including learning, memory and cognition. The number, synaptic localization and
subunit composition of synaptic AMPARs are tightly regulated by network activity 
and by the history of activity at individual synapses. Furthermore, aberrant
AMPAR trafficking is implicated in neurodegenerative diseases. AMPARs therefore
represent a prime target for drug development and the mechanisms that control
their synaptic delivery, retention and removal are the subject of extensive
research. Here, we review recent findings that have provided new insights into
AMPAR trafficking and that might lead to the development of novel therapeutic
strategies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.004 
PMCID: PMC3314507
PMID: 21420743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Trends Neurosci. 2011 May;34(5):269-81. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.005. Epub
2011 Mar 16.

Toll-like receptor signaling in neural plasticity and disease.

Okun E(1), Griffioen KJ, Mattson MP.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging Intramural Research
Program, Biomedical Research Center, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are a family of innate immune system receptors that
respond to pathogen-derived and tissue damage-related ligands. TLR signaling in
immune cells, glia and neurons can play roles in the pathogenesis of stroke,
Alzheimer's disease (AD) and multiple sclerosis (MS). Recent findings suggest
that TLR signaling also influences multiple dynamic processes in the developing
and adult central nervous system including neurogenesis, axonal growth and
structural plasticity. In addition, TLRs are implicated in the regulation of
behaviors including learning, memory and anxiety. This review describes recently 
discovered and unexpected roles for TLRs in neuroplasticity, and the implications
of these findings for future basic and translational research studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.005 
PMCID: PMC3095763
PMID: 21419501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Trends Neurosci. 2011 May;34(5):247-57. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.002. Epub
2011 Mar 11.

Mechanisms for complexity in the brain: generating the insect central complex.

Boyan GS(1), Reichert H.

Author information: 
(1)Biocenter, University of Munich, Grosshadernerstrasse 2, 82152 Martinsried,
Germany.

The central complex of the insect brain is a remarkably miniaturized but highly
complex multimodal information-processing network. Recent work on central complex
development in Drosophila and grasshopper reveals that the cells comprising its
complex circuitry are generated by a surprisingly small number of primary
progenitors. Of these, four identified neural stem cells generate a large number 
of neurons through a novel mode of neurogenesis that involves self-renewing
intermediate progenitor cells. Interestingly, a comparable mode of amplification 
of proliferation also operates in the developing mammalian cortex; this could be 
a general strategy for increasing brain size and complexity. Although this type
of proliferation generates a large number of progeny, it is also prone to
dysregulation, resulting in brain tumors. Thus, furthering our knowledge of the
development of the central complex is likely to be valuable not only for
understanding brain complexity but could also have important implications for
identifying developmental pathways that go awry during tumor formation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.002 
PMID: 21397959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Apr;34(4):210-24. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.003. Epub
2011 Mar 23.

Mechanisms of top-down attention.

Baluch F(1), Itti L.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of Southern California, Los Angeles,
CA, USA.

Attention exhibits characteristic neural signatures in brain regions that process
sensory signals. An important area of future research is to understand the nature
of top-down signals that facilitate attentional guidance towards behaviorally
relevant locations and features. In this review, we discuss recent studies that
have made progress towards understanding: (i) the brain structures and circuits
involved in attentional allocation; (ii) top-down attention pathways,
particularly as elucidated by microstimulation and lesion studies; (iii) top-down
modulatory influences involving subcortical structures and reward systems; (iv)
plausible substrates and embodiments of top-down signals; and (v) information
processing and theoretical constraints that might be helpful in guiding future
experiments. Understanding top-down attention is crucial for elucidating the
mechanisms by which we can filter sensory information to pay attention to the
most behaviorally relevant events.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.003 
PMID: 21439656  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Apr;34(4):177-87. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.001.

Experience-dependent structural plasticity in the cortex.

Fu M(1), Zuo Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, University of
California Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, CA 95064, USA.

Synapses are the fundamental units of neuronal circuits. Synaptic plasticity can 
occur through changes in synaptic strength, as well as through the
addition/removal of synapses. Two-photon microscopy in combination with
fluorescence labeling offers a powerful tool to peek into the living brain and
follow structural reorganization at individual synapses. Time-lapse imaging
depicts a dynamic picture in which experience-dependent plasticity of synaptic
structures varies between different cortical regions and layers, as well as
between neuronal subtypes. Recent studies have demonstrated that the formation
and elimination of synaptic structures happens rapidly in a subpopulation of
cortical neurons during various sensorimotor learning experiences, and that
stabilized synaptic structures are associated with long lasting memories for the 
task. Therefore, circuit plasticity, mediated by structural remodeling, provides 
an underlying mechanism for learning and memory.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.02.001 
PMCID: PMC3073830
PMID: 21397343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Apr;34(4):165-76. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.006. Epub
2011 Mar 4.

Glucocorticoids act on glutamatergic pathways to affect memory processes.

Sandi C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Behavioral Genetics, Brain Mind Institute, École Polytechnique
Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), Lausanne, Switzerland. carmen.sandi@epfl.ch

Glucocorticoids can acutely affect memory processes, with both facilitating and
impairing effects having been described. Recent work has revealed that
glucocorticoids may affect learning and memory processes by interacting with
glutamatergic mechanisms. In this opinion article I describe different
glutamatergic pathways that glucocorticoids can affect to modulate memory
processes. Furthermore, glucocorticoid-glutamatergic interactions during
information processing are proposed as a potential model to explain many of the
diverse actions of glucocorticoids on cognition. The model suggests that direct
modulation of glutamatergic pathways by glucocorticoids could serve as an
important mechanism for these hormones to directly alter cognitive functions.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.006 
PMID: 21377221  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Apr;34(4):198-209. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.005. Epub
2011 Feb 25.

Cytoprotective protein C pathways and implications for stroke and neurological
disorders.

Zlokovic BV(1), Griffin JH.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurodegenerative and Vascular Brain Disorders, Department of
Neurological Surgery, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, New
York, USA. berislav_zlokovic@urmc.rochester.edu

Recent studies indicate that single-action-single-target agents are unlikely to
cure CNS disorders sharing a pathogenic triad consisting of vascular damage,
neuronal injury/neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation. Here we focus on a
recent example of a multiple-action-multiple-target approach for CNS disorders
based on newly discovered biological properties of activated protein C (APC), an 
endogenous plasma protease with antithrombotic, cytoprotective and
anti-inflammatory activities in the CNS. We propose that APC-mediated signaling
through the protease activated receptor-1 (PAR1) can favorably regulate multiple 
pathways within the neurovascular unit in non-neuronal cells and neurons during
acute or chronic CNS insults, leading to stabilization of the blood-brain barrier
(BBB), neuroprotection and control of neuroinflammation. Although much remains to
be understood regarding the biology of APC, preclinical studies suggest that APC 
has promising applications as disease-modifying therapy for ischemic stroke and
other neuropathologies whose underlying pathology involves deficits in the
vasculo-neuronal-inflammatory triad.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.005 
PMCID: PMC3491752
PMID: 21353711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Apr;34(4):188-97. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.004. Epub
2011 Feb 25.

Hooked on benzodiazepines: GABAA receptor subtypes and addiction.

Tan KR(1), Rudolph U, Lüscher C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Neurosciences, Medical Faculty, University of Geneva,
Geneva, Switzerland.

Benzodiazepines are widely used clinically to treat anxiety and insomnia. They
also induce muscle relaxation, control epileptic seizures, and can produce
amnesia. Moreover, benzodiazepines are often abused after chronic clinical
treatment and also for recreational purposes. Within weeks, tolerance to the
pharmacological effects can develop as a sign of dependence. In vulnerable
individuals with compulsive drug use, addiction will be diagnosed. Here we review
recent observations from animal models regarding the cellular and molecular basis
that might underlie the addictive properties of benzodiazepines. These data
reveal how benzodiazepines, acting through specific GABA(A) receptor subtypes,
activate midbrain dopamine neurons, and how this could hijack the mesolimbic
reward system. Such findings have important implications for the future design of
benzodiazepines with reduced or even absent addiction liability.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.004 
PMCID: PMC4020178
PMID: 21353710  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Mar;34(3):124-33. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.003.

Rewiring the brain with cell transplantation in Parkinson's disease.

Gaillard A(1), Jaber M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Physiologie et Biologie Cellulaires, Université de Poitiers,
Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), 1 rue Georges Bonnet,
Poitiers, F-86022, France. Afsaneh.Gaillard@univ-poitiers.fr

Cell replacement therapy has been proposed as a means to replace lost
dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease (PD). In most studies, the
transplanted cells have been placed within the target site, the striatum, and not
within the lesioned site, the substantia nigra, as the adult nigrostriatal
pathway was thought to constitute a non-permissive environment for long distance 
axonal outgrowth of transplanted neuroblasts. Here, we discuss recent findings
showing that intranigral transplanted dopaminergic neuroblasts can form axonal
projections to the striatum, resulting in increased striatal dopamine levels and 
ameliorating behavioral deficits in animal models of PD. Such findings have
raised new hopes and opened new avenues for cell replacement therapy in patients 
with PD.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.003 
PMID: 21316770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Mar;34(3):134-42. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.002.

Development and cancer of the cerebellum.

Hatten ME(1), Roussel MF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Developmental Neurobiology, The Rockefeller University, New
York, NY 10065, USA. hatten@rockefeller.edu

Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most common malignant pediatric brain tumor and is
thought to arise from genetic anomalies in developmental pathways required for
the normal maturation of the cerebellar cortex, notably developmental pathways
for granule cell progenitor (GCP) neurogenesis. Over the past decade, a wide
range of studies have identified genes and their regulators within signaling
pathways, as well as noncoding RNAs, that have crucial roles in both normal
cerebellar development and pathogenesis. These include the Notch, Wnt/β-catenin, 
bone morphogenic proteins (Bmp) and Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) pathways. In this
review, we highlight the function of these pathways in the growth of the
cerebellum and the formation of MB. A better understanding of the developmental
origins of these tumors will have significant implications for enhancing the
treatment of this important childhood cancer.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.002 
PMCID: PMC3051031
PMID: 21315459  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Mar;34(3):143-53. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.001.

Slitrks as emerging candidate genes involved in neuropsychiatric disorders.

Proenca CC(1), Gao KP, Shmelkov SV, Rafii S, Lee FS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Weill Cornell Medical College of Cornell University,
New York, NY 10065, USA. ccp2001@med.cornell.edu

Slitrks are a family of structurally related transmembrane proteins belonging to 
the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) superfamily. Six family members exist (Slitrk1-6)
and all are highly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS). Slitrks have
been implicated in mediating basic neuronal processes, ranging from neurite
outgrowth and dendritic elaboration to neuronal survival. Recent studies in
humans and genetic mouse models have led to the identification of Slitrks as
candidate genes that might be involved in the development of neuropsychiatric
conditions, such as obsessive compulsive spectrum disorders and schizophrenia.
Although these system-level approaches have suggested that Slitrks play prominent
roles in CNS development, key questions remain regarding the molecular mechanisms
through which they mediate neuronal signaling and connectivity.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2011.01.001 
PMCID: PMC3051006
PMID: 21315458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Mar;34(3):154-63. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.12.002. Epub
2011 Jan 20.

Kainate receptors coming of age: milestones of two decades of research.

Contractor A(1), Mulle C, Swanson GT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine,
Chicago, IL 60611, USA. a-contractor@northwestern.edu

Two decades have passed since the first report of the cloning of a kainate-type
glutamate receptor (KAR) subunit. The intervening years have seen a rapid growth 
in our understanding of the biophysical properties and function of KARs in the
brain. This research has led to an appreciation that KARs play very distinct
roles at synapses relative to other members of the glutamate-gated ion channel
receptor family, despite structural and functional commonalities. The
surprisingly diverse and complex nature of KAR signaling underlies their unique
impact upon neuronal networks through their direct and indirect effects on
synaptic transmission, and their prominent role in regulating cell excitability. 
This review pieces together highlights from the two decades of research
subsequent to the cloning of the first subunit, and provides an overview of our
current understanding of the role of KARs in the CNS and their potential
importance to neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.12.002 
PMCID: PMC3051042
PMID: 21256604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Mar;34(3):114-23. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.11.002. Epub
2010 Dec 31.

Temporal coherence and attention in auditory scene analysis.

Shamma SA(1), Elhilali M, Micheyl C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Institute for Systems
Research, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, USA. sas@umd.edu

Humans and other animals can attend to one of multiple sounds and follow it
selectively over time. The neural underpinnings of this perceptual feat remain
mysterious. Some studies have concluded that sounds are heard as separate streams
when they activate well-separated populations of central auditory neurons, and
that this process is largely pre-attentive. Here, we argue instead that stream
formation depends primarily on temporal coherence between responses that encode
various features of a sound source. Furthermore, we postulate that only when
attention is directed towards a particular feature (e.g. pitch) do all other
temporally coherent features of that source (e.g. timbre and location) become
bound together as a stream that is segregated from the incoherent features of
other sources.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.11.002 
PMCID: PMC3073558
PMID: 21196054  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Feb;34(2):76-87. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.12.001. Epub 2011
Jan 13.

Astrocyte-neuron metabolic relationships: for better and for worse.

Allaman I(1), Bélanger M, Magistretti PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroenergetics and Cellular Dynamics, Brain Mind Institute,
Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne, CH-1015, Switzerland.

In recent years, previously unsuspected roles of astrocytes have been revealed,
largely owing to the development of new tools enabling their selective study in
situ. These exciting findings add to the large body of evidence demonstrating
that astrocytes play a central role in brain homeostasis, in particular via the
numerous cooperative metabolic processes they establish with neurons, such as the
supply of energy metabolites and neurotransmitter recycling functions.
Furthermore, impairments in astrocytic function are increasingly being recognized
as an important contributor to neuronal dysfunction and, in particular,
neurodegenerative processes. In this review, we discuss recent evidence
supporting important roles for astrocytes in neuropathological conditions such as
neuroinflammation, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. We also
explore the potential for neuroprotective therapeutics based on the modulation of
astrocytic functions.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.12.001 
PMID: 21236501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Feb;34(2):61-75. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.11.003. Epub 2010
Dec 20.

Learning to move machines with the mind.

Green AM(1), Kalaska JF.

Author information: 
(1)Groupe de Recherche sur le Système Nerveux Central, Département de
Physiologie, Université de Montréal, C.P. 6128, Succursale Centre-ville,
Montréal, Québec H3C 3J7, Canada.

Brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) extract signals from neural activity to control 
remote devices ranging from computer cursors to limb-like robots. They show great
potential to help patients with severe motor deficits perform everyday tasks
without the constant assistance of caregivers. Understanding the neural
mechanisms by which subjects use BCI systems could lead to improved designs and
provide unique insights into normal motor control and skill acquisition. However,
reports vary considerably about how much training is required to use a BCI
system, the degree to which performance improves with practice and the underlying
neural mechanisms. This review examines these diverse findings, their potential
relationship with motor learning during overt arm movements, and other
outstanding questions concerning the volitional control of BCI systems.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.11.003 
PMID: 21176975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Feb;34(2):101-12. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.10.005. Epub
2010 Dec 9.

GABA A,slow: causes and consequences.

Capogna M(1), Pearce RA.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Anatomical Neuropharmacology Unit, Mansfield Road, Oxford OX1 3TH, UK.
marco.capogna@pharm.ox.ac.uk

GABA(A) receptors in the CNS mediate both fast synaptic and tonic inhibition.
Over the past decade a phasic current with features intermediate between fast
synaptic and tonic inhibition, termed GABA(A,slow), has received increasing
attention. This has coincided with an ever-growing appreciation for GABAergic
cell type diversity. Compared with classical fast synaptic inhibition,
GABA(A,slow) is slower by an order of magnitude. In this review, we summarize
recent studies that have enhanced our understanding of GABA(A,slow). These
include the discovery of specialized interneuron types from which this current
originates, the factors that could underlie its characteristically slow kinetics,
its contribution to specific aspects of integrative function and network
oscillations, and its potential usefulness as a novel drug target for modulating 
inhibitory synaptic transmission in the CNS.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.10.005 
PMID: 21145601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Feb;34(2):88-100. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.11.001. Epub
2010 Dec 7.

Repairing the parkinsonian brain with neurotrophic factors.

Aron L(1), Klein R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Neurobiology, Max-Planck Institute of Neurobiology, Am
Klopferspitz 18, 82152 Martinsried, Germany. liviu@hms.harvard.edu

No therapy exists to slow down or prevent Parkinson's disease (PD), a
debilitating neurodegenerative disorder. Neurotrophic factors (NTFs) emerged as
promising disease-modifying agents in PD and are currently under clinical
development. We argue that efforts in three research areas must converge to
harness the full therapeutic power of NTFs. First, the physiological roles of
NTFs in aging dopaminergic neurons must be comprehensively understood. Second,
the mechanisms underlying the neuroprotective, neurorestorative and stimulatory
effects of NTFs on diseased neurons need to be defined. Third, improved brain
delivery of NTFs and new ways to stimulate NTF signaling are required to achieve 
clinical benefits. In this review, we discuss progress in these areas and
highlight emerging concepts in NTF biology and therapy.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.11.001 
PMID: 21144600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Feb;34(2):51-60. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.10.003. Epub 2010
Nov 8.

Tuning of synaptic responses: an organizing principle for optimization of neural 
circuits.

O'Donnell C(1), Nolan MF.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroinformatics Doctoral Training Centre, University of Edinburgh, EH8 9AB,
UK.

Neuron types are classically defined by anatomical and physiological properties
that determine how synaptic inputs are integrated. Here, we provide an overview
of the evidence that, among neurons of a single type, integration of synaptic
responses is further tuned according to the particular function that individual
neurons carry out. Recent data suggest that tuning of synaptic responses is not
restricted to sensory pathways, but extends to cognitive and motor circuits. We
propose that tuning of synaptic integration results from general cellular
mechanisms for optimization of information processing that are distinct from, but
complementary to, homeostasis and memory storage. These cellular tuning
mechanisms might be crucial for distributed computations underlying sensory,
motor and cognitive functions.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.10.003 
PMID: 21067825  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jan;34(1):41-50. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.10.002. Epub 2010
Dec 2.

Development, specification, and diversity of callosal projection neurons.

Fame RM(1), MacDonald JL, Macklis JD.

Author information: 
(1)MGH-HMS Center for Nervous System Repair, Department of Neurosurgery, and
Program in Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Callosal projection neurons (CPN) are a diverse population of neocortical
projection neurons that connect the two hemispheres of the cerebral cortex via
the corpus callosum. They play key roles in high-level associative connectivity, 
and have been implicated in cognitive syndromes of high-level associative
dysfunction, such as autism spectrum disorders. CPN evolved relatively recently
compared to other cortical neuron populations, and have undergone
disproportionately large expansion from mouse to human. While much is known about
the anatomical trajectory of developing CPN axons, and progress has been made in 
identifying cellular and molecular controls over midline crossing, only recently 
have molecular-genetic controls been identified that specify CPN populations, and
help define CPN subpopulations. In this review, we discuss the development,
diversity and evolution of CPN.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.10.002 
PMCID: PMC3053014
PMID: 21129791  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jan;34(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.10.004. Epub 2010
Nov 8.

Stuck in a rut: rethinking depression and its treatment.

Holtzheimer PE(1), Mayberg HS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of
Medicine, 101 Woodruff Circle NE, Suite 4000, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.
pholtzh@emory.edu

The current definition of major depressive disorder (MDD) emerged from efforts to
create reliable diagnostic criteria for clinical and research use. However,
despite decades of research, the neurobiology of MDD is largely unknown, and
treatments are no more effective today than they were 50-70 years ago. Here, we
propose that the current conception of depression is misguiding basic and
clinical research. Redefinition is necessary and could include a focus on a more 
narrowly defined set of core symptoms. However, we conclude that depression is
better defined as the tendency to enter into, and inability to disengage from, a 
negative mood state rather than the mood state per se. We also discuss the
implications of this revised definition for future clinical and basic research.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.10.004 
PMCID: PMC3014414
PMID: 21067824  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jan;34(1):31-40. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.10.001. Epub 2010
Oct 28.

The extra-hypothalamic actions of ghrelin on neuronal function.

Andrews ZB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, VIC 3183, Australia.
zane.andrews@monash.edu

Ghrelin is a peptide hormone produced and secreted in the stomach. Numerous
studies over the past decade demonstrate its importance in food intake,
body-weight regulation and glucose homeostasis. These effects are driven largely 
by the high expression of the ghrelin receptor (GHSR1a) in the hypothalamus.
However, GHSR1a is also expressed in numerous extra-hypothalamic neuronal
populations, suggesting that ghrelin has physiological functions besides those
involved in metabolic functions. In this review, I focus on increasing evidence
that ghrelin has important roles in extra-hypothalamic functions, including
learning and memory, reward and motivation, anxiety and depression, and
neuroprotection. Furthermore, I discuss how the recently demonstrated role of
ghrelin in promoting survival during periods of caloric restriction could
contribute to its inherent neuroprotective and neuromodulatory properties.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.10.001 
PMID: 21035199  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


481. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jan;34(1):10-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.005. Epub 2010 
Oct 26.

Activation of cortical interneurons during sleep: an anatomical link to
homeostatic sleep regulation?

Kilduff TS(1), Cauli B, Gerashchenko D.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience, Biosciences Division, SRI International, Menlo Park, 
CA 94025, USA. thomas.kilduff@sri.com

Although slow wave activity in the EEG has been linked to homeostatic sleep
regulation, the neurobiological substrate of sleep homeostasis is not well
understood. Whereas cortical neurons typically exhibit reduced discharge rates
during slow wave sleep (SWS), a subpopulation of GABAergic interneurons, which
express the enzyme neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), has recently been found
to be activated during SWS. The extent of activation of these nNOS neurons is
proportional to homeostatic sleep 'drive'. These cells are an exception among
cortical interneurons in that they are projection neurons. We propose that
cortical nNOS neurons are positioned to influence neuronal activity across
widespread brain areas. They could thus provide a long-sought anatomical link for
understanding homeostatic sleep regulation.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.005 
PMCID: PMC3014438
PMID: 21030095  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Trends Neurosci. 2011 Jan;34(1):20-30. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.006. Epub 2010
Oct 25.

Is adult neurogenesis essential for olfaction?

Lazarini F(1), Lledo PM.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Laboratory for Perception and Memory, 75015 Paris, France.

In mammals, new neurons are recruited into restricted brain areas throughout
life. Adult-born neurons produced in the subventricular zone of the lateral
ventricle migrate rostrally towards the olfactory bulb. Although thousands of
neurons reach this central structure every day, the functional impact of their
integration into mature circuits remains a matter of debate. Recent
investigations have revealed no striking sensory deficits per se when adult
bulbar neurogenesis is challenged. However, some cognitive functions, such as
perceptual learning and olfactory memory, are clearly impaired. In this review we
highlight the role of network activity in shaping ongoing neurogenesis and, in
turn, how the integration of adult-born neurons refines pre-existing network
function, and consequently olfactory behavior.

Copyright Â© 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.006 
PMID: 20980064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Dec;33(12):550-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.002. Epub
2010 Nov 5.

The multiple pathways for itch and their interactions with pain.

Davidson S(1), Giesler GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Pain Center and Department of Anesthesiology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA. davidsons@morpheus.wustl.edu

Multiple neural pathways and molecular mechanisms responsible for producing the
sensation of itch have recently been identified, including histamine-independent 
pathways. Physiological, molecular, behavioral and brain imaging studies are
converging on a description of these pathways and their close association with
pain processing. Some conflicting results have arisen and the precise
relationship between itch and pain remains controversial. A better understanding 
of the generation of itch and of the intrinsic mechanisms that inhibit itch after
scratching should facilitate the search for new methods to alleviate clinical
pruritus (itch). In this review we describe the current understanding of the
production and inhibition of itch. A model of itch processing within the CNS is
proposed.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.002 
PMCID: PMC2991051
PMID: 21056479  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Dec;33(12):569-79. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.003. Epub
2010 Oct 18.

When neurogenesis encounters aging and disease.

Lazarov O(1), Mattson MP, Peterson DA, Pimplikar SW, van Praag H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University of Illinois at Chicago,
Chicago, IL, USA. olazarov@uic.edu

In this review, we consider the evidence that a reduction in neurogenesis
underlies aging-related cognitive deficits and impairments in disorders such as
Alzheimer's disease (AD). The molecular and cellular alterations associated with 
impaired neurogenesis in the aging brain are discussed. Dysfunction of
presenilin-1, misprocessing of amyloid precursor protein and toxic effects of
hyperphosphorylated tau and β-amyloid probably contribute to impaired
neurogenesis in AD. Because factors such as exercise, environmental enrichment
and dietary energy restriction enhance neurogenesis, and protect against
age-related cognitive decline and AD, knowledge of the underlying neurogenic
signaling pathways could lead to novel therapeutic strategies for preserving
brain function. In addition, manipulation of endogenous neural stem cells and
stem cell transplantation, as stand-alone or adjunct treatments, seems promising.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.003 
PMCID: PMC2981641
PMID: 20961627  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Dec;33(12):559-68. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.004. Epub
2010 Oct 18.

α-Synuclein and dopamine at the crossroads of Parkinson's disease.

Venda LL(1), Cragg SJ, Buchman VL, Wade-Martins R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics; Oxford Parkinson's Disease
Centre, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3QX, UK.

α-Synuclein is central to the Lewy body neuropathology of Parkinson's disease
(PD), a devastating neurodegenerative disorder characterized by numerous motor
and non-motor manifestations. The cardinal motor symptoms are linked to death of 
dopaminergic neurons in the nigrostriatal pathway. Here we ask why these neurons 
are preferentially susceptible to neurodegeneration in PD and how α-synuclein is 
involved. To address these questions we bring together recent findings from
genome-wide association studies, which reveal the involvement of α-synuclein gene
variants in sporadic PD, with recent studies highlighting important roles for
α-synuclein in synaptic transmission and dopaminergic neuron physiology. These
latest advances add to our understanding of PD etiology and provide a central
link between the genetic findings and neurodegeneration observed in sporadic PD.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.004 
PMCID: PMC3631137
PMID: 20961626  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Dec;33(12):541-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.001. Epub
2010 Oct 12.

Autophagy in neurodegenerative disorders: pathogenic roles and therapeutic
implications.

Banerjee R(1), Beal MF, Thomas B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, Weill Medical College of Cornell
University, 525 East 68(th) Street, A-501, New York, NY 10065.

Autophagy is a highly conserved intracellular pathway involved in the elimination
of proteins and organelles by lysosomes. Known originally as an adaptive response
to nutrient deprivation in mitotic cells, autophagy is now recognized as an
arbiter of neuronal survival and death decisions in neurodegenerative diseases.
Studies using postmortem human tissue, genetic and toxin-induced animal and
cellular models indicate that many of the etiological factors associated with
neurodegenerative disorders can perturb the autophagy process. Emerging data
support the view that dysregulation of autophagy might play a critical role in
the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. In this review, we highlight the
pathophysiological roles of autophagy and its potential therapeutic implications 
in debilitating neurodegenerative disorders, including amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis and Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.09.001 
PMCID: PMC2981680
PMID: 20947179  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Dec;33(12):533-40. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.08.001. Epub
2010 Sep 23.

Functional localization within the prefrontal cortex: missing the forest for the 
trees?

Wilson CR(1), Gaffan D, Browning PG, Baxter MG.

Author information: 
(1)Stem Cell and Brain Research Institute, Institut National de la Santé et de la
Recherche Médicale Unité 846, 18 avenue du Doyen Lépine, 69675 Cedex, Lyon,
France.

Anatomical and functional studies of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) have identified 
multiple PFC subregions. We argue that the PFC is involved in cognitive functions
exceeding the sum of specific functions attributed to its subregions. These can
be revealed either by lesions of the whole PFC, or more specifically by selective
disconnection of the PFC from certain types of information (for example, visual) 
allowing the investigation of PFC function in toto. Recent studies in macaque
monkeys using the latter approach lead to a second conclusion: that the PFC, as a
whole, could be fundamentally specialized for representing events that are
extended in time. The representation of temporally complex events might underlie 
PFC involvement in general intelligence, decision-making, and executive function.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.08.001 
PMCID: PMC2997428
PMID: 20864190  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Nov;33(11):524-32. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.08.004. Epub
2010 Sep 24.

Cerebellar molecular layer interneurons - computational properties and roles in
learning.

Jörntell H(1), Bengtsson F, Schonewille M, De Zeeuw CI.

Author information: 
(1)Section for Neurophysiology, Department of Experimental Medical Science,
Biomedical Center F10, Tornavägen 10, Lund, Sweden. henrik.jorntell@med.lu.se

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci. 2011 Mar;34(3):113.

In recent years there has been an increased interest in the function of
inhibitory interneurons. In the cerebellum this interest has been paired with
successes in obtaining recordings from these neurons in vivo and genetic
manipulations to probe their function during behavioral tasks such as motor
learning. This review focuses on a synthesis of recent findings on the
computational properties that these neurons confer to the cerebellar circuitry
and on their recently discovered capacity for plasticity and learning in vivo.
Since the circuitry of the cerebellar cortex is relatively well-defined, the
specificity with which the potential roles of these interneurons can be described
will help to guide new avenues of research on the functions of interneurons in
general.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.08.004 
PMID: 20869126  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Nov;33(11):485-92. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.08.005. Epub
2010 Sep 21.

Phenotypic checkpoints regulate neuronal development.

Ben-Ari Y(1), Spitzer NC.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Neurobiologie de la Méditerranée (INMED), Institut National de la 
Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) Unité 901, Parc Scientifique de
Luminy, Marseille CEDEX 09, France. ben-ari@inmed.univ-mrs.fr

Nervous system development proceeds by sequential gene expression mediated by
cascades of transcription factors in parallel with sequences of patterned network
activity driven by receptors and ion channels. These sequences are cell type- and
developmental stage-dependent and modulated by paracrine actions of substances
released by neurons and glia. How and to what extent these sequences interact to 
enable neuronal network development is not understood. Recent evidence
demonstrates that CNS development requires intermediate stages of differentiation
providing functional feedback that influences gene expression. We suggest that
embryonic neuronal functions constitute a series of phenotypic checkpoint
signatures; neurons failing to express these functions are delayed or
developmentally arrested. Such checkpoints are likely to be a general feature of 
neuronal development and constitute presymptomatic signatures of neurological
disorders when they go awry.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.08.005 
PMCID: PMC2963711
PMID: 20864191  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Nov;33(11):513-23. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.08.002. Epub
2010 Sep 17.

Early synaptic pathophysiology in neurodegeneration: insights from Huntington's
disease.

Milnerwood AJ(1), Raymond LA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Brain Research Centre, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

Investigations of synaptic transmission and plasticity in mouse models of
Huntington's disease (HD) demonstrate neuronal dysfunction long before the onset 
of classical disease indicators. Similarly, recent human studies reveal synaptic 
dysfunction decades before predicted clinical diagnosis in HD gene carriers.
These studies guide premanifest tracking of disease and the development of
treatment assessment tools. New discoveries of mechanisms underlying early
neuronal dysfunction, including elevated pathogenic extrasynaptic NMDA receptor
signaling, reduced synaptic connectivity and loss of brain-derived neurotrophic
factor (BDNF) support have led to pharmacological interventions that can reverse 
or delay phenotype onset and disease progression in HD mice. Further
understanding the primary effects of gene mutations associated with late-onset
neurodegeneration should translate to novel treatments for HD families and guide 
therapeutic strategies for other neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.08.002 
PMID: 20850189  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Nov;33(11):493-502. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.07.004. Epub
2010 Sep 16.

Protein modifications involved in neurotransmitter and gasotransmitter signaling.

Sen N(1), Snyder SH.

Author information: 
(1)Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Covalent modifications of intracellular proteins, such as phosphorylation, are
generally thought to occur as secondary or tertiary responses to
neurotransmitters, following the intermediation of membrane receptors and second 
messengers such as cyclic AMP. By contrast, the gasotransmitter nitric oxide
directly S-nitrosylates cysteine residues in diverse intracellular proteins.
Recently, hydrogen sulfide has been acknowledged as a gasotransmitter, which
analogously sulfhydrates cysteine residues in proteins. Cysteine residues are
also modified by palmitoylation in response to neurotransmitter signaling,
possibly in reciprocity with S-nitrosylation. Neurotransmission also elicits
sumoylation and acetylation of lysine residues within diverse proteins. This
review addresses how these recently appreciated protein modifications impact our 
thinking about ways in which neurotransmission regulates intracellular protein
disposition.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.07.004 
PMCID: PMC3023981
PMID: 20843563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Nov;33(11):503-12. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.08.003.

Compartmentalization from the outside: the extracellular matrix and functional
microdomains in the brain.

Dityatev A(1), Seidenbecher CI, Schachner M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Brain Technologies, Italian Institute of
Technology, via Morego 30, Genova, Italy. alexander.dityatev@iit.it

The extracellular matrix (ECM) of the central nervous system is well recognized
as a migration and diffusion barrier that allows for the trapping and
presentation of growth factors to their receptors at the cell surface. Recent
data highlight the importance of ECM molecules as synaptic and perisynaptic
scaffolds that direct the clustering of neurotransmitter receptors in the
postsynaptic compartment and that present barriers to reduce the lateral
diffusion of membrane proteins away from synapses. The ECM also contributes to
the migration and differentiation of stem cells in the neurogenic niche and
organizes the polarized localization of ion channels and transporters at contacts
between astrocytic processes and blood vessels. Thus, the ECM contributes to
functional compartmentalization in the brain.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.08.003 
PMID: 20832873  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Oct;33(10):465-73. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.07.003.

Parenting and plasticity.

Leuner B(1), Glasper ER, Gould E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University,
Princeton NJ 08544, USA.

As any new parent knows, having a baby provides opportunities for enrichment,
learning and stress - experiences known to change the adult brain. Yet
surprisingly little is known about the effects of maternal experience, and even
less about the effects of paternal experience, on neural circuitry not directly
involved in parenting. Here we discuss how caregiving and the accompanying
experiential and hormonal changes influence the hippocampus and prefrontal
cortex, brain regions involved in cognition and mood regulation. A better
understanding of how parenting impacts the brain is likely to help in devising
strategies for treating parental depression, a condition that can have serious
cognitive and mental health consequences for children.

Copyright © 2010. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.07.003 
PMCID: PMC3076301
PMID: 20832872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Oct;33(10):474-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.07.002. Epub
2010 Sep 9.

Deep brain stimulation: from neurology to psychiatry?

Krack P(1), Hariz MI, Baunez C, Guridi J, Obeso JA.

Author information: 
(1)Movement Disorders Unit, Department of Psychiatry and Neurology, University
Hospital Grenoble, France. paul.krack@ujf-grenoble.fr

Functional stereotaxy was introduced in the late 1940s to reduce the morbidity of
lobotomy in psychiatric disease by using more focal lesions. The advent of
neuroleptics led to a drastic decline in psychosurgery for several decades.
Functional stereotactic neurosurgery has recently been revitalized, starting with
treatment of Parkinson's disease, in which deep brain stimulation (DBS)
facilitates reversible focal neuromodulation of altered basal ganglia circuits.
DBS is now being extended to treatment of neuropsychiatric conditions such as
Gilles de la Tourette syndrome, obsessive-compulsive disorder, depression and
addiction. In this review, we discuss the concept that dysfunction of motor,
limbic and associative cortico-basal ganglia-thalamocortical loops underlies
these various disorders, which might now be amenable to DBS treatment.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.07.002 
PMID: 20832128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Oct;33(10):457-64. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.07.001. Epub
2010 Aug 10.

Dopamine reveals neural circuit mechanisms of fly memory.

Waddell S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 364
Plantation Street, Worcester, MA 01605, USA. scott.waddell@umassmed.edu

A goal of memory research is to understand how changing the weight of specific
synapses in neural circuits in the brain leads to an appropriate learned
behavioral response. Finding the relevant synapses should allow investigators to 
probe the underlying physiological and molecular operations that encode memories 
and permit their retrieval. In this review I discuss recent work in Drosophila
that implicates specific subsets of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in aversive
reinforcement and appetitive motivation. The zonal architecture of these DA
neurons is likely to reveal the functional organization of aversive and
appetitive memory in the mushroom bodies. Combinations of fly DA neurons might
code negative and positive value, consistent with a motivational systems role as 
proposed in mammals.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.07.001 
PMCID: PMC2947577
PMID: 20701984  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Oct;33(10):435-45. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.006.

The molecular and gene regulatory signature of a neuron.

Hobert O(1), Carrera I, Stefanakis N.

Author information: 
(1)Columbia University Medical Center, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, New York,
NY, USA. or38@columbia.edu

Neuron-type specific gene batteries define the morphological and functional
diversity of cell types in the nervous system. Here, we discuss the composition
of neuron-type specific gene batteries and illustrate gene regulatory strategies 
which determine the unique gene expression profiles and molecular composition of 
individual neuronal cell types from C. elegans to higher vertebrates. Based on
principles learned from prokaryotic gene regulation, we argue that neuronal
terminal gene batteries are functionally grouped into parallel-acting 'regulons'.
The theoretical concepts discussed here provide testable hypotheses for future
experimental analysis of the exact gene-regulatory mechanisms employed in the
generation of neuronal diversity and identity.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.006 
PMCID: PMC2947585
PMID: 20663572  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Oct;33(10):446-56. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.06.002. Epub
2010 Jul 13.

Developmental determinants of the independence and complexity of the enteric
nervous system.

Gershon MD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University, College of
Physicians and Surgeons, 630 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032, USA.
mdg4@columbia.edu

Enteric nervous system (ENS) development is relevant to Hirschsprung's disease
(HSCR; congenital aganglionosis of the terminal bowel), which is still
imperfectly treated. Mutations in genes encoding the RET receptor tyrosine kinase
and endothelin receptor type B (EDNRB) are involved in HSCR pathogenesis;
however, also important in ENS development are molecules that mediate events that
are more restricted than those of RET and EDNRB, act later in development and
which might not be HSCR-associated. Examples are molecules that function in the
guidance of enteric neural crest-derived cells (ENCDCs) and vagal axons, and in
regulating the terminal differentiation of enteric neurons from ENCDCs. It is
probable that highly prevalent disorders of gastrointestinal sensation and
motility result from subtle defects in ENS development.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.06.002 
PMID: 20633936  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Sep;33(9):415-23. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.06.004.

BK channel activation: structural and functional insights.

Lee US(1), Cui J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering and Cardiac Bioelectricity and Arrhythmia
Center, Washington University, St. Louis, MO 63130, USA.

The voltage- and Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (BK) channels are involved in the
regulation of neurotransmitter release and neuronal excitability. Structurally,
BK channels are homologous to voltage- and ligand-gated K(+) channels, having a
voltage sensor and pore as the membrane-spanning domain and a cytosolic domain
containing metal binding sites. Recently published electron cryomicroscopy
(cryo-EM) and X-ray crystallographic structures of the BK channel provided the
first glimpse into the assembly of these domains, corroborating the close
interactions among these domains during channel gating that have been suggested
by functional studies. This review discusses these latest findings and an
emerging new understanding about BK channel gating and implications for diseases 
such as epilepsy, in which mutations in BK channel genes have been associated.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.06.004 
PMCID: PMC2929326
PMID: 20663573  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Sep;33(9):391-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.06.003. Epub 2010
Jul 23.

The Bermuda Triangle of cocaine-induced neuroadaptations.

Wolf ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and
Science, 3333 Green Bay Road, North Chicago, IL 60064-3095, USA.
marina.wolf@rosalindfranklin.edu

Activation of medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the nucleus accumbens is critical
for goal-directed behaviors including cocaine seeking. Studies in
cocaine-experienced rodents have revealed three major categories of
neuroadaptations that influence the ability of glutamate inputs to activate MSNs:
changes in synaptic AMPA receptor levels, changes in extracellular non-synaptic
glutamate levels and changes in MSN intrinsic membrane excitability. Most studies
have focused on one of these adaptations. This review will consider the
possibility that they are causally related and speculate about how time-dependent
changes in their interactions may regulate MSN output during early and late
withdrawal from repeated cocaine exposure.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.06.003 
PMCID: PMC2935206
PMID: 20655604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Sep;33(9):399-406. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.04.004. Epub
2010 Jun 2.

Navigational mechanisms of migrating monarch butterflies.

Reppert SM(1), Gegear RJ, Merlin C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, MA 01605, USA. Steven.Reppert@umassmed.edu

Recent studies of the iconic fall migration of monarch butterflies have
illuminated the mechanisms behind their southward navigation while using a
time-compensated sun compass. Skylight cues, such as the sun itself and polarized
light, are processed through both eyes and are probably integrated in the brain's
central complex, the presumed site of the sun compass. Time compensation is
provided by circadian clocks that have a distinctive molecular mechanism and that
reside in the antennae. Monarchs might also use a magnetic compass because they
possess two cryptochromes that have the molecular capability for light-dependent 
magnetoreception. Multiple genomic approaches are now being used with the aim of 
identifying navigation genes. Monarch butterflies are thus emerging as an
excellent model organism in which to study the molecular and neural basis of
long-distance migration.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.04.004 
PMCID: PMC2929297
PMID: 20627420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Sep;33(9):407-14. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.06.001. Epub
2010 Jul 1.

Role for Reelin in stabilizing cortical architecture.

Frotscher M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Anatomie und Zellbiologie and Zentrum für Neurowissenschaften,
Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Albertstr. 17, D-79104 Freiburg, Germany.
Michael.Frotscher@anat.uni-freiburg.de

Reelin controls the migration of neurons and layer formation during brain
development. However, recent studies have shown that disrupting Reelin function
in the adult hippocampus induces repositioning of fully differentiated neurons,
suggesting a stabilizing effect of Reelin on mature neuronal circuitry. Indeed,
Reelin was recently found to stabilize the actin cytoskeleton by inducing cofilin
phosphorylation. When unphosphorylated, cofilin acts as an actin-depolymerizing
protein that promotes the disassembly of F-actin. Here, a novel hypothesis is
proposed whereby decreased Reelin expression in the mature brain causes
destabilization of neurons and their processes, leading to aberrant plasticity
and aberrant wiring of brain circuitry. This has implications for brain
disorders, such as epilepsy and schizophrenia, in which deficiencies in Reelin
expression occur.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.06.001 
PMID: 20598379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Sep;33(9):424-34. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.005. Epub
2010 Jun 18.

Serotonin: a regulator of neuronal morphology and circuitry.

Daubert EA(1), Condron BG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Virginia, 071 Gilmer Hall, P.O. Box
400328, Charlottesville, VA 22904, USA.

Serotonin is an important neuromodulator associated with a wide range of
physiological effects in the central nervous system. The exact mechanisms whereby
serotonin influences brain development are not well understood, although studies 
in invertebrate and vertebrate model organisms are beginning to unravel a
regulatory role for serotonin in neuronal morphology and circuit formation.
Recent data suggest a developmental window during which altered serotonin levels 
permanently influence neuronal circuitry, however, the temporal constraints and
molecular mechanisms responsible are still under investigation. Growing evidence 
suggests that alterations in early serotonin signaling contribute to a number of 
neurodevelopmental and neuropsychiatric disorders. Thus, understanding how
altered serotonin signaling affects neuronal morphology and plasticity, and
ultimately animal physiology and pathophysiology, will be of great significance.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.005 
PMCID: PMC2929308
PMID: 20561690  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Aug;33(8):355-61. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.002. Epub
2010 Jun 22.

The What and How of prefrontal cortical organization.

O'Reilly RC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of Colorado Boulder, 345
UCB, Boulder, CO 80309, USA. randy.oreilly@colorado.edu

How is the prefrontal cortex (PFC) organized such that it is capable of making
people more flexible and in control of their behavior? Is there any systematic
organization across the many diverse areas that comprise the PFC, or is it
uniquely adaptive such that no fixed representational structure can develop?
Going against the current tide, this paper argues that there is indeed a
systematic organization across PFC areas, with an important functional
distinction between ventral and dorsal regions characterized as processing What
versus How information, respectively. This distinction has implications for the
rostro-caudal and medial-lateral axes of organization as well. The resulting
large-scale functional map of PFC could prove useful in integrating diverse data,
and in generating novel predictions.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.002 
PMCID: PMC2916029
PMID: 20573407  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Aug;33(8):381-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.004. Epub 2010
Jun 9.

'Too much good news' - are Alzheimer mouse models trying to tell us how to
prevent, not cure, Alzheimer's disease?

Zahs KR(1), Ashe KH.

Author information: 
(1)N. Bud Grossman Center for Memory Research and Care, University of Minnesota
Medical School, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.

Scores of compounds ameliorate cognitive deficits or neuropathology in transgenic
mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet these triumphs in mice have not
translated into successful therapies for people. Why have studies in mice failed 
to predict results of human trials? We argue that most transgenic mouse 'models
of AD' actually simulate the asymptomatic phase of the disease, and the results
of interventional studies in these mice should be considered in the context of
disease prevention. In addition, recent advances in imaging technology and
biomarker discovery should aid in comparisons of mouse and human neurological
status and, importantly, might allow us to predict better the response of people 
to drugs tested in mice.

Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.004 
PMID: 20542579  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Aug;33(8):373-80. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.003. Epub
2010 Jun 11.

Building a bridal chamber: development of the thalamus.

Scholpp S(1), Lumsden A.

Author information: 
(1)Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Institute for Toxicology and Genetics,
76021 Karlsruhe, Germany.

The thalamus is a central brain region that plays a crucial role in distributing 
incoming sensory information to appropriate regions of the cortex. The thalamus
develops in the posterior part of the embryonic forebrain, where early cell fate 
decisions are controlled by a local signaling center - the mid-diencephalic
organizer - which forms at the boundary between prospective prethalamus and
thalamus. In this review we discuss recent observations of early thalamic
development in zebrafish, chick, and mouse embryos, that reveal a conserved set
of interactions between homeodomain transcription factors. These interactions
position the organizer along the neuraxis. The most prominent of the organizer's 
signals, Sonic hedgehog, is necessary for conferring regional identity on the
prethalamus and thalamus and for patterning their differentiation.

Crown Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.003 
PMCID: PMC2954313
PMID: 20541814  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Aug;33(8):362-72. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.001. Epub
2010 Jun 11.

Tubulin post-translational modifications: encoding functions on the neuronal
microtubule cytoskeleton.

Janke C(1), Kneussel M.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Curie, Bâtiment 110, Centre Universitaire, F-91405 Orsay Cedex,
France. Carsten.Janke@curie.fr

In the past decades, a range of post-translational modifications has been
discovered on tubulins, the major constituents of microtubules. Pioneering
studies have described the occurrence and dynamics of these modifications and
provided first insights into their potential functions in regulating the
microtubule cytoskeleton. By contrast, several tubulin-modifying enzymes were
only discovered in the last few years, and studies on molecular mechanisms and
cellular functions of tubulin modifications are just beginning to emerge. This
review highlights the roles of tubulin modifications in neurons. Recent studies
are also discussed in relation to how the combinatorial use of tubulin
modifications could generate a dynamic microtubule code, and how such a code
might regulate basic as well as higher-order neuronal functions.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.05.001 
PMID: 20541813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Aug;33(8):345-54. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.04.001. Epub
2010 May 12.

LINE-1 retrotransposons: mediators of somatic variation in neuronal genomes?

Singer T(1), McConnell MJ, Marchetto MC, Coufal NG, Gage FH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla,
California, USA.

LINE-1 (L1) elements are retrotransposons that insert extra copies of themselves 
throughout the genome using a 'copy and paste' mechanism. L1s comprise nearly
approximately 20% of the human genome and are able to influence chromosome
integrity and gene expression upon reinsertion. Recent studies show that L1
elements are active and 'jumping' during neuronal differentiation. New somatic L1
insertions could generate 'genomic plasticity' in neurons by causing variation in
genomic DNA sequences and by altering the transcriptome of individual cells.
Thus, L1-induced variation could affect neuronal plasticity and behavior. We
discuss potential consequences of L1-induced neuronal diversity and propose that 
a mechanism for generating diversity in the brain could broaden the spectrum of
behavioral phenotypes that can originate from any single genome.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.04.001 
PMCID: PMC2916067
PMID: 20471112  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jul;33(7):317-25. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.04.003. Epub
2010 May 20.

The propagation of prion-like protein inclusions in neurodegenerative diseases.

Goedert M(1), Clavaguera F, Tolnay M.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge, CB2 0QH, UK.
mg@mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk

The most common neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease and
Parkinson's disease, are characterized by the misfolding of a small number of
proteins that assemble into ordered aggregates in affected brain cells. For many 
years, the events leading to aggregate formation were believed to be entirely
cell-autonomous, with protein misfolding occurring independently in many cells.
Recent research has now shown that cell non-autonomous mechanisms are also
important for the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases with intracellular
filamentous inclusions. The intercellular transfer of inclusions made of tau,
alpha-synuclein, huntingtin and superoxide dismutase 1 has been demonstrated,
revealing the existence of mechanisms reminiscent of those by which prions spread
through the nervous system.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.04.003 
PMID: 20493564  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jul;33(7):326-34. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.04.002. Epub
2010 May 20.

Coding in the mammalian gustatory system.

Carleton A(1), Accolla R, Simon SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Medical Faculty, University of Geneva, 1 rue
Michel-Servet, 1211 Genève 4, Switzerland. alan.carleton@unige.ch

To understand gustatory physiology and associated dysfunctions it is important to
know how oral taste stimuli are encoded both in the periphery and in
taste-related brain centres. The identification of distinct taste receptors,
together with electrophysiological recordings and behavioral assessments in
response to taste stimuli, suggest that information about distinct taste
modalities (e.g. sweet versus bitter) are transmitted from the periphery to the
brain via segregated pathways. By contrast, gustatory neurons throughout the
brain are more broadly tuned, indicating that ensembles of neurons encode taste
qualities. Recent evidence reviewed here suggests that the coding of gustatory
stimuli is not immutable, but is dependant on a variety of factors including
appetite-regulating molecules and associative learning.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.04.002 
PMCID: PMC2902637
PMID: 20493563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jul;33(7):335-44. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.006. Epub
2010 Apr 29.

Retrograde axonal transport: pathways to cell death?

Perlson E(1), Maday S, Fu MM, Moughamian AJ, Holzbaur EL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine,
Philadelphia, PA 19067, USA.

Active transport along the axon is crucial to the neuron. Motor-driven transport 
supplies the distal synapse with newly synthesized proteins and lipids, and
clears damaged or misfolded proteins. Microtubule motors also drive long-distance
signaling along the axon via signaling endosomes. Although positive signaling
initiated by neurotrophic factors has been well-studied, recent research has
focused on stress-signaling along the axon. Here, the connections between axonal 
transport alterations and neurodegeneration are discussed, including evidence for
defective transport of vesicles, mitochondria, degradative organelles, and
signaling endosomes in models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's,
Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. Defects in transport are sufficient to
induce neurodegeneration, but recent progress suggests that changes in retrograde
signaling pathways correlate with rapidly progressive neuronal cell death.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.006 
PMCID: PMC2902719
PMID: 20434225  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jul;33(7):299-306. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.005. Epub
2010 Apr 19.

The sticky issue of neurosteroids and GABA(A) receptors.

Chisari M(1), Eisenman LN, Covey DF, Mennerick S, Zorumski CF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S.
Euclid Ave, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.

Endogenous neurosteroids and their synthetic analogs (neuroactive steroids) are
potent modulators of GABA(A) receptors. Thus, they are of physiological and
clinical relevance for their ability to modulate inhibitory function in the CNS. 
Despite their importance, fundamental issues of neurosteroid actions remain
unresolved. Recent evidence suggests that glutamatergic principal neurons, rather
than glia, are the major sources of neurosteroid synthesis. Other recent studies 
have identified putative neurosteroid binding sites on GABA(A) receptors. In this
Opinion, we argue that neurosteroids require a membranous route of access to
transmembrane-domain binding sites within GABA(A) receptors. This has
implications for the design of future neuroactive steroids because the lipid
solubility and related accessibility properties of the ligand are likely to be
key determinants of receptor modulation.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.005 
PMCID: PMC2902671
PMID: 20409596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jul;33(7):307-16. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.002. Epub
2010 Apr 1.

Dendritic ion channel trafficking and plasticity.

Shah MM(1), Hammond RS, Hoffman DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, The School of Pharmacy, University of London,
London, WC1N 1AX, UK. mala.shah@pharmacy.ac.uk

Dendritic ion channels are essential for the regulation of intrinsic excitability
as well as modulating the shape and integration of synaptic signals. Changes in
dendritic channel function have been associated with many forms of synaptic
plasticity. Recent evidence suggests that dendritic ion channel modulation and
trafficking could contribute to plasticity-induced alterations in neuronal
function. In this review we discuss our current knowledge of dendritic ion
channel modulation and trafficking and their relationship to cellular and
synaptic plasticity. We also consider the implications for neuronal function. We 
argue that to gain an insight into neuronal information processing it is
essential to understand the regulation of dendritic ion channel expression and
properties.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.002 
PMCID: PMC2902701
PMID: 20363038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jun;33(6):292-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.004. Epub 2010
Apr 14.

Roles of trinucleotide-repeat RNA in neurological disease and degeneration.

Li LB(1), Bonini NM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305,
USA.

A large number of human diseases are caused by expansion of repeat sequences -
typically trinucleotide repeats - within the respective disease genes. The
abnormally expanded sequence can lead to a variety of effects on the gene:
sometimes the gene is silenced, but in many cases the expanded repeat sequences
confer toxicity to the mRNA and, in the case of polyglutamine diseases, to the
encoded protein. This article highlights mechanisms by which the mRNAs with
abnormally expanded repeats can confer toxicity leading to neuronal dysfunction
and loss. Greater understanding of these mechanisms will provide the foundation
for therapeutic advances for this set of human disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.004 
PMID: 20398949  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jun;33(6):259-66. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.003. Epub
2010 Apr 3.

The low synaptic release probability in vivo.

Borst JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam,
3015 GE Rotterdam, The Netherlands. g.borst@erasmusmc.nl

The release probability, the average probability that an active zone of a
presynaptic terminal releases one or more vesicles following an action potential,
is tightly regulated. Measurements in cultured neurons or in slices indicate that
this probability can vary greatly between synapses, but on average it is
estimated to be as high as 0.5. In vivo, however, the size of synaptic potentials
is relatively independent of recent history, suggesting that release probability 
is much lower. Possible causes for this discrepancy include maturational
differences, a higher spontaneous activity, a lower extracellular calcium
concentration and more prominent tonic inhibition by ambient neurotransmitters
during in vivo recordings. Existing evidence thus suggests that under
physiological conditions in vivo, presynaptic action potentials trigger the
release of neurotransmitter much less frequently than what is observed in in
vitro preparations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.003 
PMID: 20371122  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jun;33(6):285-91. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.001. Epub
2010 Mar 29.

Towards a molecular understanding of sex differences in memory formation.

Mizuno K(1), Giese KP.

Author information: 
(1)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Department of Neuroscience,
London SE5 9NU, UK. keiko.mizuno@kcl.ac.uk

Sex differences exist in brain function and behavior. However, the underlying
molecular mechanisms are only beginning to emerge. Recent studies in rodents have
revealed molecular mechanisms underlying sex differences in memory formation. It 
is becoming clear that sex differences are not simply reflective of differences
in sex hormones, but also reflect distinctions in synaptic signaling mechanisms
including the role of synaptic kinases. Furthermore, there are sex differences in
the activation of transcription factors and gene transcription during memory
formation. This review discusses emerging evidence in the field and how these
findings are providing a first step towards a molecular understanding of how sex 
differences impact on memory formation both in health and disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.03.001 
PMID: 20356635  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jun;33(6):277-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.006. Epub
2010 Mar 11.

Rest-stimulus interaction in the brain: a review.

Northoff G(1), Qin P, Nakao T.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Mental Health Research, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON K1Z 7K4,
Canada. georg.northoff@rohcg.on.ca

Studies in animals and humans have demonstrated intrinsic activity in the brain
during the resting state. The concept of the default-mode network (DMN) - a set
of brain regions in which resting-state activity (RSA) activity is reduced in
response to external stimuli - recently raised much controversy concerning the
psychological correlates of RSA. However, it remains unclear how RSA interacts
with stimulus-induced activity. Here we review studies in humans and animals that
address how RSA interacts with stimulus-induced activity; we also discuss,
conversely, how stimulus-induced activity can modulate RSA. Psychologically, the 
rest-stimulus interaction is relevant to predicting subsequent behavioral and
mental states. We conclude that a better understanding of the rest-stimulus
interaction is likely to be crucial to the elucidation of the brain's
contribution to mental states.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.006 
PMID: 20226543  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jun;33(6):267-76. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.002. Epub
2010 Mar 5.

The addicted synapse: mechanisms of synaptic and structural plasticity in nucleus
accumbens.

Russo SJ(1), Dietz DM, Dumitriu D, Morrison JH, Malenka RC, Nestler EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Fishberg Department of Neuroscience, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York,
NY 10029-6574, USA. scott.russo@mssm.edu

Addictive drugs cause persistent restructuring of several neuronal cell types in 
the limbic regions of brain thought to be responsible for long-term behavioral
plasticity driving addiction. Although these structural changes are well
documented in nucleus accumbens medium spiny neurons, little is known regarding
the underlying molecular mechanisms. Additionally, it remains unclear whether
structural plasticity and its synaptic concomitants drive addictive behaviors or 
whether they reflect homeostatic compensations to the drug not related to
addiction per se. Here, we discuss recent paradoxical data, which either support 
or oppose the hypothesis that drug-induced changes in dendritic spines drive
addictive behavior. We define areas where future investigation can provide a more
detailed picture of drug-induced synaptic reorganization, including
ultrastructural, electrophysiological and behavioral studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.002 
PMCID: PMC2891948
PMID: 20207024  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Trends Neurosci. 2010 May;33(5):249-58. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.003. Epub
2010 Mar 11.

RNA metabolism and the pathogenesis of motor neuron diseases.

Lemmens R(1), Moore MJ, Al-Chalabi A, Brown RH Jr, Robberecht W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology (University Hospitals Leuven) and Laboratory for
Neurobiology, Section of Experimental Neurology, School of Medicine, University
of Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

The pathogenic mechanisms of degenerative diseases of the nervous system are not 
well understood. Recent evidence suggests that proteins with a role in RNA
synthesis, processing, function and degradation play a role in the mechanism of
degenerative disorders affecting the motor neuron. However, most of these
proteins also affect cellular processes other than RNA processing. Furthermore,
many of the familial diseases are inherited dominantly, suggesting a
gain-of-function as their pathogenic mechanism. This newly gained function could 
be unrelated to their normal role in the cell. Therefore, here we review some of 
the recent data linking RNA metabolism and motor neuron disorders, but also
critically assess their relevance for our understanding of the mechanism of
neurodegeneration.

Crown Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.003 
PMID: 20227117  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Trends Neurosci. 2010 May;33(5):211-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.005. Epub 2010
Mar 11.

Human ataxias: a genetic dissection of inositol triphosphate receptor
(ITPR1)-dependent signaling.

Schorge S(1), van de Leemput J, Singleton A, Houlden H, Hardy J.

Author information: 
(1)Reta Lila Weston Laboratories and Department of Molecular Neuroscience,
Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, WC1N 3BG, UK.

A persistent mystery about the ataxias has been why mutations in genes--many of
which are expressed widely in the brain--primarily cause ataxia, and not, for
example, epilepsy or dementia. Why should a polyglutamine stretch in the
TATA-binding protein (that is important in all cells) particularly disrupt
cerebellar coordination? We propose that advances in the genetics of cerebellar
ataxias suggest a rational hypothesis for how so many different genes lead to
predominantly cerebellar defects. We argue that the unifying feature of many
genes involved in cerebellar ataxias is their impact on the signaling protein
ITPR1 (inositiol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor type 1), that underlies coincidence 
detection in Purkinje cells and could play an important role in cerebellar
coordination.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.005 
PMCID: PMC4684264
PMID: 20226542  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Trends Neurosci. 2010 May;33(5):230-40. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.001. Epub
2010 Mar 10.

CREB's control of intrinsic and synaptic plasticity: implications for
CREB-dependent memory models.

Benito E(1), Barco A.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Neurociencias de Alicante (Universidad Miguel Hernández-Consejo
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas), Campus de Sant Joan, Apt. 18, Sant Joan
d'Alacant, 03550, Alicante, Spain.

The activation of cAMP-response element binding protein (CREB)-dependent gene
expression seems a crucial step in the molecular cascade that mediates the
formation of long-lasting memories. This view is based both on correlative
evidence and on functional assays that demonstrate, through loss- and
gain-of-function experiments, the impact of CREB manipulation on memory
performance. Mechanistically, CREB's role in memory is thought to be a
consequence of its participation in long-term forms of synaptic plasticity.
Recent studies demonstrate that CREB, in addition to synaptic plasticity, also
modulates the intrinsic excitability of the neuron. This discovery reveals new
intriguing connections between intrinsic and synaptic plasticity and is likely to
have a significant impact on our understanding of the role of CREB in memory
formation.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.001 
PMID: 20223527  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Trends Neurosci. 2010 May;33(5):241-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.004. Epub 2010
Mar 8.

TARPs differentially decorate AMPA receptors to specify neuropharmacology.

Kato AS(1), Gill MB, Yu H, Nisenbaum ES, Bredt DS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly and
Company, Indianapolis, IN 46285-0510, USA.

Transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs) are the first identified 
auxiliary subunits for a neurotransmitter-gated ion channel. Although initial
studies found that stargazin, the prototypical TARP, principally chaperones AMPA 
receptors, subsequent research demonstrated that it also regulates AMPA receptor 
kinetics and synaptic waveforms. Recent studies have identified a diverse
collection of TARP isoforms--types Ia, Ib II--that distinctly regulate AMPA
receptor trafficking, gating and neuropharmacology. These TARP isoforms are
heterogeneously expressed in specific neuronal populations and can differentially
sculpt synaptic transmission and plasticity. Whole-genome analyses also link
multiple TARP loci to childhood epilepsy, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.
TARPs emerge as vital components of excitatory synapses that participate both in 
signal transduction and in neuropsychiatric disorders.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.02.004 
PMID: 20219255  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Trends Neurosci. 2010 May;33(5):220-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.006. Epub 2010
Mar 5.

Play it again: reactivation of waking experience and memory.

O'Neill J(1), Pleydell-Bouverie B, Dupret D, Csicsvari J.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Anatomical Neuropharmacology Unit, Department of Pharmacology, University 
of Oxford, Mansfield Road, Oxford OX1 3TH, UK.

Episodic and spatial memories each involve the encoding of complex associations
in hippocampal neuronal circuits. Such memory traces could be stabilised from
short- to long-term forms by consolidation processes involving the 'reactivation'
of the original network firing patterns during sleep and rest. Waking experience 
can be replayed in many different brain areas, but an important role for the
hippocampus lies in the organisation of the 'reactivation' process. Emerging
evidence suggests that sharp wave/ripple (SWR) events in the hippocampus could
coordinate the reactivation of memory traces and direct their reinstatement in
cortical circuits. Although the mechanisms remain uncertain, there is a growing
consensus that such SWR-directed reactivation of brain-wide memory traces could
underlie memory consolidation.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.006 
PMID: 20207025  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Apr;33(4):173-82. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.005. Epub
2010 Mar 19.

Spatially restricting gene expression by local translation at synapses.

Wang DO(1), Martin KC, Zukin RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, University of California 
at Los Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, USA.

mRNA localization and regulated translation provide a means of spatially
restricting gene expression within each of the thousands of subcellular
compartments made by a neuron, thereby vastly increasing the computational
capacity of the brain. Recent studies reveal that local translation is regulated 
by stimuli that trigger neurite outgrowth and/or collapse, axon guidance, synapse
formation, pruning, activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, and injury-induced
axonal regeneration. Impairments in the local regulation of translation result in
aberrant signaling, physiology and morphology of neurons, and are linked to
neurological disorders. This review highlights current advances in understanding 
how mRNA translation is repressed during transport and how local translation is
activated by stimuli. We address the function of local translation in the context
of fragile X mental retardation.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.005 
PMCID: PMC3503250
PMID: 20303187  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Apr;33(4):193-201. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.007. Epub
2010 Mar 12.

Epigenetic regulation of oligodendrocyte identity.

Liu J(1), Casaccia P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Genetics and Genomics, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, One Gustave L. Levy Place, New York, NY 10029, USA.

The interplay of transcription factors and epigenetic modifiers, including
histone modifications, DNA methylation and microRNAs during development is
essential for the acquisition of specific cell fates. Here, we review the
epigenetic "programming" of stem cells into oligodendrocytes, by analyzing three 
sequential stages of lineage progression. The first transition from pluripotent
stem cells to neural precursors is characterized by repression of pluripotency
genes and restriction of the lineage potential to the neural fate. The second
transition from multipotential precursors to oligodendrocyte progenitors is
associated with the progressive loss of plasticity and the repression of neuronal
and astrocytic genes. The last step of differentiation of oligodendrocyte
progenitors into myelin-forming cells is defined by a model of derepression of
myelin genes.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.007 
PMCID: PMC2849857
PMID: 20227775  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Apr;33(4):202-10. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.002. Epub
2010 Feb 12.

Multiple sclerosis - candidate mechanisms underlying CNS atrophy.

Siffrin V(1), Vogt J, Radbruch H, Nitsch R, Zipp F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University Medicine Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg
University Mainz, Germany.

Recently it has become clear that the neuronal compartment plays a more important
role than previously thought in the pathology of multiple sclerosis. Apart from
demyelination, neuronal pathology is apparently largely responsible for the brain
atrophy that can be observed early on and throughout the course of the disease.
The loss of axons and their neurons in the course of chronic neuroinflammation is
a major factor determining long-term disability in patients. The actual steps
leading from immune attack against the myelin sheath to neuronal damage are not
yet fully clear. Here we review key findings about direct axonal damage
processes, demyelination-related neuronal pathology and cell-body pathology, the 
major pathologic correlates that underlie brain atrophy in MS.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.002 
PMID: 20153532  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Apr;33(4):183-92. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.003. Epub
2010 Feb 10.

Learning to see: patterned visual activity and the development of visual
function.

Ruthazer ES(1), Aizenman CD.

Author information: 
(1)Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, Montreal, QC H3A 2B4,
Canada. edward.ruthazer@mcgill.ca

To successfully interact with their environments, developing organisms need to
correctly process sensory information and generate motor outputs appropriate to
their size and structure. Patterned sensory experience has long been known to
induce various forms of developmental plasticity that ultimately shape mature
neural circuits. These same types of plasticity also allow developing organisms
to respond appropriately to the external world by dynamically adapting neural
circuit function to ongoing changes in brain circuitry and sensory input. Recent 
work on the visual systems of frogs and fish has provided an unprecedented view
into how visual experience dynamically affects circuit function at many levels,
ranging from gene expression to network function, ultimately leading to
system-wide functional adaptations.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.003 
PMCID: PMC3415282
PMID: 20153060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Apr;33(4):163-72. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.004. Epub
2010 Feb 6.

Should I stay or should I go? Becoming a granule cell.

Chédotal A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM), UMR S968, 
Institut de la Vision, Department of Development, F-75012 Paris, France.
alain.chedotal@inserm.fr

Cerebellar granule cells undergo profound and rapid morphological modifications
during development while they migrate from their birthplace at the surface of the
cerebellar cortex to its deepest layer. Post-mitotic granule cells extend bipolar
axons and sequentially use the two main modes of migration, tangential and
radial, to reach their final destinations. Recent studies show that protein
degradation involving key cell-cycle regulators controls granule cell axon
extension. The use of knockout mice deficient in different axon-guidance
molecules combined with cutting-edge imaging methods has started to shed light on
the molecular mechanisms that trigger granule cell migration. These studies
suggest that a major reorganization of the cytoskeleton occurs as granule cells
switch from tangential to radial migration.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.004 
PMID: 20138673  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Mar;33(3):121-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.001.

Structural dynamics of dendritic spines in memory and cognition.

Kasai H(1), Fukuda M, Watanabe S, Hayashi-Takagi A, Noguchi J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Structural Physiology, Center for Disease Biology and
Integrative Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, and Center for NanoBio Integration,
University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan. hkasai@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Recent studies show that dendritic spines are dynamic structures. Their rapid
creation, destruction and shape-changing are essential for short- and long-term
plasticity at excitatory synapses on pyramidal neurons in the cerebral cortex.
The onset of long-term potentiation, spine-volume growth and an increase in
receptor trafficking are coincident, enabling a 'functional readout' of spine
structure that links the age, size, strength and lifetime of a synapse. Spine
dynamics are also implicated in long-term memory and cognition: intrinsic
fluctuations in volume can explain synapse maintenance over long periods, and
rapid, activity-triggered plasticity can relate directly to cognitive processes. 
Thus, spine dynamics are cellular phenomena with important implications for
cognition and memory. Furthermore, impaired spine dynamics can cause psychiatric 
and neurodevelopmental disorders.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2010.01.001 
PMID: 20138375  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Mar;33(3):153-61. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.12.003. Epub
2010 Jan 12.

Senescent synapses and hippocampal circuit dynamics.

Burke SN(1), Barnes CA.

Author information: 
(1)Evelyn F. McKnight Brain Institute, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85724,
USA.

Excitatory synaptic transmission is altered during aging in hippocampal granule
cells, and in CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cells. These functional changes contribute to
age-associated impairments in experimentally-induced plasticity in each of these 
primary hippocampal subregions. In CA1, plasticity evoked by stimulation shares
common mechanisms with the synaptic modification observed following natural
behavior. Aging results in deficits in both artificially- and
behaviorally-induced plasticity, and this could in part reflect age-related
changes in Ca2+ homeostasis. Other observations, however, suggest that increased 
intracellular Ca2+ levels are beneficial under some circumstances. This review
focuses on age-associated changes in synaptic function, how these alterations
might contribute to cognitive decline, and the extent to which altered
hippocampal circuit properties are detrimental or reflect compensatory processes.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.12.003 
PMCID: PMC3076741
PMID: 20071039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Mar;33(3):130-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.12.004. Epub 2010
Jan 8.

Early transformations in odor representation.

Cleland TA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.
tac29@cornell.edu

Sensory representations are repeatedly transformed by neural computations that
determine which of their attributes can be effectively processed at each stage.
Whereas some early computations are common across multiple sensory systems, they 
can utilize dissimilar underlying mechanisms depending on the properties of each 
modality. Recent work in the olfactory bulb has substantially clarified the
neural algorithms underlying early odor processing. The high-dimensionality of
odor space strictly limits the utility of topographical representations, forcing 
similarity-dependent computations such as decorrelation to employ unusual neural 
algorithms. The distinct architectures and properties of the two prominent
computational layers in the olfactory bulb suggest that the bulb is directly
comparable not only to the retina but also to primary visual cortex.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.12.004 
PMCID: PMC2839009
PMID: 20060600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Mar;33(3):111-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.12.001. Epub
2010 Jan 4.

Sensory neural codes using multiplexed temporal scales.

Panzeri S(1), Brunel N, Logothetis NK, Kayser C.

Author information: 
(1)Robotics, Brain and Cognitive Sciences Department, Italian Institute of
Technology, Via Morego 30, 16163 Genova, Italy. stefano.panzeri@iit.it

Determining how neuronal activity represents sensory information is central for
understanding perception. Recent work shows that neural responses at different
timescales can encode different stimulus attributes, resulting in a temporal
multiplexing of sensory information. Multiplexing increases the encoding capacity
of neural responses, enables disambiguation of stimuli that cannot be
discriminated at a single response timescale, and makes sensory representations
stable to the presence of variability in the sensory world. Thus, as we discuss
here, temporal multiplexing could be a key strategy used by the brain to form an 
information-rich and stable representation of the environment.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.12.001 
PMID: 20045201  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Mar;33(3):140-52. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.12.002. Epub
2010 Jan 4.

Neuroprotection, regeneration and immunomodulation: broadening the therapeutic
repertoire in multiple sclerosis.

Aktas O(1), Kieseier B, Hartung HP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Heinrich-Heine-Universität Düsseldorf, 40225
Düsseldorf, Germany. orhan.aktas@uni-duesseldorf.de

Multiple sclerosis (MS), an incurable but manageable disorder, is characterized
by chronic inflammatory demyelination and neurodegeneration in the central
nervous system. Although the primary cause of this often devastating disease
remains elusive, major therapeutic advances have occurred during the past two
decades. Here, we present a review of current immunomodulatory treatments and
outline upcoming therapy approaches, including biologics and oral alternatives
that might have equivalent or superior efficacy and/or enhanced tolerability
compared with available treatments, and discuss the scientific rationale and
expected benefits and risks for these compounds. We also speculate about
alternatives beyond immune-directed approaches, review novel insights into the
neurobiological consequences of sustained brain inflammation and evaluate future 
perspectives for neuroprotective and neuroregenerative treatment strategies for
MS.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.12.002 
PMID: 20045200  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Feb;33(2):59-66. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.001.

GARS axonopathy: not every neuron's cup of tRNA.

Motley WW(1), Talbot K, Fischbeck KH.

Author information: 
(1)Neurogenetics Branch, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke 
(NINDS), National Institutes of Health (NIH), 35 Convent Drive, Bethesda, MD
20892-3705, USA.

Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2D, a hereditary axonal neuropathy, is caused by
mutations in glycyl-tRNA synthetase (GARS). The mutations are distributed
throughout the protein in multiple functional domains. In biochemical and cell
culture experiments, some mutant forms of GARS have been indistinguishable from
wild-type protein, suggesting that these in vitro tests might not adequately
assess the aberrant activity responsible for axonal degeneration. Recently, mouse
and fly models have offered new insights into the disease mechanism. There are
still gaps in our understanding of how mutations in a ubiquitously expressed
component of the translation machinery result in axonal neuropathy. Here, we
review recent reports, weigh the evidence for and against possible mechanisms and
suggest areas of focus for future work.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.001 
PMCID: PMC2822721
PMID: 20152552  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Feb;33(2):93-102. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.007. Epub
2009 Dec 18.

Non-junction functions of pannexin-1 channels.

MacVicar BA(1), Thompson RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Centre, Department of Psychiatry, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

Pannexins are large-pore ion channels with broad expression in the central
nervous system (CNS). The channels function by releasing large signaling
molecules, such ATP and arachidonic acid derivatives, from neurons and possibly
astrocytes. They might also contribute to novel forms of non-synaptic
communication in the CNS, thereby affecting synaptic function, astrocytic Ca(2+) 
wave propagation and possibly regulation of vascular tone in the brain. Panx1
activation in various in vitro pathological conditions implicates these channels 
in ischemic, excitotoxic and ATP-dependent cell death, whereas Panx coupling with
purinergic receptors triggers the inflammasome. Novel functions for the pannexin 
channels are likely to be discovered as current understanding of how they are
regulated in physiological and pathological situations improves.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.007 
PMID: 20022389  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Feb;33(2):103-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.006. Epub 2009
Dec 11.

The prairie vole: an emerging model organism for understanding the social brain.

McGraw LA(1), Young LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Behavioral Neuroscience, Yerkes National Primate Research Center,
Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30329, USA. lamcgraw@gmail.com

Unlike most mammalian species, the prairie vole is highly affiliative, forms
enduring social bonds between mates and displays biparental behavior. Over two
decades of research on this species has enhanced our understanding of the
neurobiological basis not only of monogamy, social attachment and nurturing
behaviors but also other aspects of social cognition. Because social cognitive
deficits are hallmarks of many psychiatric disorders, discoveries made in prairie
voles can direct novel treatment strategies for disorders such as autism spectrum
disorder and schizophrenia. With the ongoing development of molecular, genetic
and genomic tools for this species, prairie voles will likely maintain their
current trajectory becoming an unprecedented model organism for basic and
translational research focusing on the biology of the social brain.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.006 
PMCID: PMC2822034
PMID: 20005580  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Feb;33(2):84-92. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.005. Epub 2009
Dec 11.

Ryks: new partners for Wnts in the developing and regenerating nervous system.

Fradkin LG(1), Dura JM, Noordermeer JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Leiden University Medical Center, 2300
RC Leiden, The Netherlands. L.G.Fradkin@lumc.nl

Conserved Ryk transmembrane proteins, tyrosine kinase-related Wnt receptors, are 
important during neurogenesis, axon guidance and synaptogenesis. Here, we review 
the increasingly complex biology of the Wnt/Ryk pathway, emphasizing the
mechanisms by which Ryks transduce or sometimes block the Wnt signal. Recent
studies reveal that Wnts signal through Ryk via multiple mechanisms, including
nuclear translocation of their intracellular domains and pathways employing Src
Family Kinases and members of the canonical Wnt pathway. We also discuss reports 
indicating that Wnt/Ryk axon guidance roles are evolutionarily conserved and
Wnt/Ryk interactions are required for motoneuron target selection and
synaptogenesis at the neuromuscular junction. Recent findings that injury-induced
Wnt/Ryk pathway activation inhibits axon regeneration underscore the importance
of further understanding this novel pathway.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.005 
PMID: 20004982  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Feb;33(2):76-83. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.004. Epub 2009
Dec 4.

Osmosensation in vasopressin neurons: changing actin density to optimize
function.

Prager-Khoutorsky M(1), Bourque CW.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Research in Neuroscience, Research Institute of the McGill
University Health Center, Montreal General Hospital, 1650 Cedar Avenue, Montreal,
Canada.

The proportional relation between circulating vasopressin concentration and
plasma osmolality is fundamental for body fluid homeostasis. Although changes in 
the sensitivity of this relation are associated with pathophysiological
conditions, central mechanisms modulating osmoregulatory gain are unknown. Here, 
we review recent data that sheds important light on this process. The cell
autonomous osmosensitivity of vasopressin neurons depends on cation channels
comprising a variant of the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (TRPV1)
channel. Hyperosmotic activation is mediated by a mechanical process where
sensitivity increases in proportion with actin filament density. Moreover,
angiotensin II amplifies osmotic activation by a rapid stimulation of actin
polymerization, suggesting that neurotransmitter-induced changes in cytoskeletal 
organization in osmosensory neurons can mediate central changes in osmoregulatory
gain.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.004 
PMID: 19963290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Feb;33(2):67-75. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.003. Epub 2009
Dec 4.

mTOR signaling: at the crossroads of plasticity, memory and disease.

Hoeffer CA(1), Klann E.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, 4 Washington Place, New York, 
NY 10003, USA.

Mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a protein kinase involved in translation 
control and long-lasting synaptic plasticity. mTOR functions as the central
component of two multi-protein signaling complexes, mTORC1 and mTORC2, which can 
be distinguished from each other based on their unique compositions and
substrates. Although the majority of evidence linking mTOR function to synaptic
plasticity comes from studies utilizing rapamycin, studies in genetically
modified mice also suggest that mTOR couples receptors to the translation
machinery for establishing long-lasting synaptic changes that are the basis for
higher order brain function, including long-term memory. Finally, perturbation of
the mTOR signaling cascade appears to be a common pathophysiological feature of
human neurological disorders, including mental retardation syndromes and autism
spectrum disorders.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.003 
PMCID: PMC2821969
PMID: 19963289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jan;33(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.002. Epub 2009
Dec 1.

Recovery of consciousness after brain injury: a mesocircuit hypothesis.

Schiff ND(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, Weill Cornell Medical College, New
York, NY, USA. nds2001@med.cornell.edu

Recovery of consciousness following severe brain injuries can occur over long
time intervals. Importantly, evolving cognitive recovery can be strongly
dissociated from motor recovery in some individuals, resulting in underestimation
of cognitive capacities. Common mechanisms of cerebral dysfunction that arise at 
the neuronal population level may explain slow functional recoveries from severe 
brain injuries. This review proposes a "mesocircuit" model that predicts specific
roles for different structural and dynamic changes that may occur gradually
during recovery. Recent functional neuroimaging studies that operationally
identify varying levels of awareness, memory and other higher brain functions in 
patients with no behavioral evidence of these cognitive capacities are discussed.
Measuring evolving changes in underlying brain function and dynamics post-injury 
and post-treatment frames future investigative work.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.11.002 
PMCID: PMC2931585
PMID: 19954851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jan;33(1):48-57. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.10.003. Epub 2009
Nov 14.

The neural-glial purinergic receptor ensemble in chronic pain states.

Jarvis MF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research, Global Pharmaceutical Research and Development, Abbott 
Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL 60064-6123, USA. michael.jarvis@abbott.com

Chronic pain is characterized by enhanced sensory neurotransmission that
underlies increased sensitivity to noxious stimuli and the perception of
non-noxious stimuli as painful. Evidence from neurophysiological and
pharmacological studies demonstrates that ATP produces pain by directly enhancing
neuronal excitability via the activation of specific ligand-gated ion channels,
the P2X3 and P2X2/3 receptors. In addition, ATP activates CNS glial cells (e.g.
microglia) in response to persistent nociceptive stimulation. This latter effect 
involves several distinct receptor-mediated signaling pathways linked to the
P2X4, P2X7 and P2Y(12) receptors. This review summarizes new data that places
these purinergic signaling events in a mechanistic context that illustrates the
ability of ATP to initiate and maintain states of heightened sensory neuron
excitability associated with persistent pain.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.10.003 
PMID: 19914722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


541. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jan;33(1):27-37. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.10.002. Epub 2009
Nov 10.

Post-transcriptional control of neurofilaments: New roles in development,
regeneration and neurodegenerative disease.

Szaro BG(1), Strong MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and the Neuroscience Research Center,
University at Albany, SUNY, 1400 Washington Avenue, Albany, NY 12222, USA.
bgs86@albany.edu

Neurofilament (NF) protein expression is coupled to axon development and the
maintenance of neuronal homeostasis. Here, we present evidence that this tight
regulation depends critically on post-transcriptionally regulated changes in NF
mRNA transport, translation and stability. Recent studies have shown that
post-transcriptional mechanisms modulate increases in NF gene transcription
during axon regeneration to yield the final pattern of NF protein expression.
Other recent work has found that post-transcriptional control of NFs shares
elements with that of other axonal proteins and that its dysregulation
contributes to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Such studies herald a novel
approach to understanding how neurons coordinate the expressions of functionally 
related proteins and provide new insights into how the dysregulation of this
control can lead to disease.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.10.002 
PMID: 19906448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jan;33(1):17-26. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.10.001. Epub 2009
Nov 2.

More than synaptic plasticity: role of nonsynaptic plasticity in learning and
memory.

Mozzachiodi R(1), Byrne JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi, Corpus
Christi, TX 78412, USA.

Decades of research on the cellular mechanisms of memory have led to the widely
held view that memories are stored as modifications of synaptic strength. These
changes involve presynaptic processes, such as direct modulation of the release
machinery, or postsynaptic processes, such as modulation of receptor properties. 
Parallel studies have revealed that memories might also be stored by nonsynaptic 
processes, such as modulation of voltage-dependent membrane conductances, which
are expressed as changes in neuronal excitability. Although in some cases
nonsynaptic changes can function as part of the engram itself, they might also
serve as mechanisms through which a neural circuit is set to a permissive state
to facilitate synaptic modifications that are necessary for memory storage.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.10.001 
PMCID: PMC2815214
PMID: 19889466  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jan;33(1):38-47. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.09.003. Epub 2009
Nov 20.

Molecular layers underlying cytoskeletal remodelling during cortical development.

Heng JI(1), Chariot A, Nguyen L.

Author information: 
(1)Florey Neuroscience Institutes, The University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC
3010, Melbourne, Australia. julian.heng@florey.edu.au

During neural development, the cytoskeleton of newborn neurons undergoes
extensive and dynamic remodelling to facilitate the sequential steps of
neurogenesis, cell migration and terminal differentiation. It is clear from
studying the mechanisms that precipitate these functions that different
configurations of the cytoskeleton prefigure the correct execution of each step
and define cohorts of proteins the functions of which are indispensable for the
control of neuronal migration but not terminal differentiation. These
combinatorial protein functions are also predetermined by regulated gene
expression and the precise subcellular localisation of their protein products.
Here, we expand on this view in the context of recent data on how the
cytoskeleton is regulated during the maturation of cortical neurons within the
developing brain.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.09.003 
PMID: 19837469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Trends Neurosci. 2010 Jan;33(1):10-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.09.002. Epub 2009 
Oct 8.

The neural basis of the speed-accuracy tradeoff.

Bogacz R(1), Wagenmakers EJ, Forstmann BU, Nieuwenhuis S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computer Science, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 1UB, UK.

In many situations, decision makers need to negotiate between the competing
demands of response speed and response accuracy, a dilemma generally known as the
speed-accuracy tradeoff (SAT). Despite the ubiquity of SAT, the question of how
neural decision circuits implement SAT has received little attention up until a
year ago. We review recent studies that show SAT is modulated in association and 
pre-motor areas rather than in sensory or primary motor areas. Furthermore, the
studies suggest that emphasis on response speed increases the baseline firing
rate of cortical integrator neurons. We also review current theories on how and
where in the brain the SAT is controlled, and we end by proposing research
directions that could distinguish between these theories.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.09.002 
PMID: 19819033  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Dec;32(12):619-28. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.006. Epub
2009 Sep 30.

Angiotensins in Alzheimer's disease - friend or foe?

Kehoe PG(1), Miners S, Love S.

Author information: 
(1)Dementia Research Group, Institute of Clinical Neurosciences, Department of
Clinical Science at North Bristol, University of Bristol, Frenchay Hospital,
Bristol BS16 1LE, UK. Patrick.Kehoe@bristol.ac.uk

The renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is an important regulator of blood pressure.
Observational and experimental studies suggest that alterations in blood pressure
and components of the brain RAS contribute to the development and progression of 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), resulting in changes that can lead or contribute to
cognitive decline. The complexity of the RAS and diversity of its interactions
with neurological processes have recently become apparent but large gaps in our
understanding still remain. Modulation of activity of components of the brain RAS
offers substantial opportunities for the treatment and prevention of dementia,
including AD. This paper reviews molecular, genetic, experimental and clinical
data as well as the therapeutic opportunities that relate to the involvement of
the RAS in AD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.006 
PMID: 19796831  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Dec;32(12):638-47. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.08.002. Epub
2009 Sep 24.

Molecular dissection of reactive astrogliosis and glial scar formation.

Sofroniew MV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles,
CA 90095-1763, USA. sofroniew@mednet.ucla.edu

Reactive astrogliosis, whereby astrocytes undergo varying molecular and
morphological changes, is a ubiquitous but poorly understood hallmark of all
central nervous system pathologies. Genetic tools are now enabling the molecular 
dissection of the functions and mechanisms of reactive astrogliosis in vivo.
Recent studies provide compelling evidence that reactive astrogliosis can exert
both beneficial and detrimental effects in a context-dependent manner determined 
by specific molecular signaling cascades. Reactive astrocytes can have both loss 
of normal functions and gain of abnormal effects that could feature prominently
in a variety of disease processes. This article reviews developments in the
signaling mechanisms that regulate specific aspects of reactive astrogliosis and 
highlights the potential to identify novel therapeutic molecular targets for
diverse neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.08.002 
PMCID: PMC2787735
PMID: 19782411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Dec;32(12):603-10. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.09.001. Epub
2009 Sep 24.

An evolutionarily adaptive neural architecture for social reasoning.

Barbey AK(1), Krueger F, Grafman J.

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders
and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.

Recent progress in cognitive neuroscience highlights the involvement of the
prefrontal cortex (PFC) in social cognition. Accumulating evidence demonstrates
that representations within the lateral PFC enable people to coordinate their
thoughts and actions with their intentions to support goal-directed social
behavior. Despite the importance of this region in guiding social interactions,
remarkably little is known about the functional organization and forms of social 
inference processed by the lateral PFC. Here, we introduce a cognitive
neuroscience framework for understanding the inferential architecture of the
lateral PFC, drawing upon recent theoretical developments in evolutionary
psychology and emerging neuroscience evidence about how this region can
orchestrate behavior on the basis of evolutionarily adaptive social norms for
obligatory, prohibited and permissible courses of action.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.09.001 
PMCID: PMC2787908
PMID: 19782410  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Dec;32(12):611-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.007. Epub
2009 Sep 24.

Critical role of nociceptor plasticity in chronic pain.

Reichling DB(1), Levine JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and Division of Neuroscience,
University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143-0440, USA.

The transition from acute to chronic pain states might be the most important
challenge in research to improve clinical treatment of debilitating pain. We
describe a recently identified mechanism of neuronal plasticity in primary
afferent nociceptive nerve fibers (nociceptors) by which an acute inflammatory
insult or environmental stressor can trigger long-lasting hypersensitivity of
nociceptors to inflammatory cytokines. This phenomenon, "hyperalgesic priming,"
depends on the epsilon isoform of protein kinase C (PKCepsilon) and a switch in
intracellular signaling pathways that mediate cytokine-induced nociceptor
hyperexcitability. We discuss the impact of this discovery on our understanding
of, and ultimately our ability to treat, a variety of enigmatic and debilitating 
pain conditions, including those associated with repetitive injury, and
generalized pain conditions, such as fibromyalgia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.007 
PMCID: PMC2787756
PMID: 19781793  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Dec;32(12):629-37. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.08.001. Epub
2009 Sep 24.

BK Channels: mediators and models for alcohol tolerance.

Treistman SN(1), Martin GE.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurobiology, University of Puerto Rico Medical Sciences Campus, 
San Juan 00901, Puerto Rico. steven.treistman@upr.edu

Enhanced acute tolerance predicts alcohol abuse. We describe work on the role of 
the calcium- and voltage-gated BK channel in alcohol tolerance, highlighting the 
lipid environment, BK protein isoform selection and auxiliary BK channel
proteins. We show how ethanol, which had the reputation of a nonspecific membrane
perturbant, is now being examined at realistic concentrations with cutting-edge
techniques, providing novel molecular targets for therapeutic approaches to
alcoholism. Addictive disorders impact our emotional, physical and financial
status, and burden our healthcare system. Although alcohol is the focus of this
review, it is highly probable, given the common neural and biochemical pathways
used by drugs of abuse, that the findings described here will also apply to other
drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.08.001 
PMCID: PMC4115799
PMID: 19781792  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Nov;32(11):575-82. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.002. Epub
2009 Sep 24.

Making a neuron: Cdk5 in embryonic and adult neurogenesis.

Jessberger S(1), Gage FH, Eisch AJ, Lagace DC.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cell Biology, Department of Biology, ETH Zurich, Schafmattstrasse
18, 8093 Zurich, Switzerland. jessberger@cell.biol.ethz.ch

Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) has been implicated in the migration, maturation
and survival of neurons born during embryonic development. New evidence suggests 
that Cdk5 has comparable but also distinct functions in adult neurogenesis. Here 
we summarize accumulating evidence on the role of Cdk5 in regulation of the cell 
cycle, migration, survival, maturation and neuronal integration. We specifically 
highlight the many similarities and few tantalizing differences in the roles of
Cdk5 in the embryonic and adult brain. We discuss the signaling pathways that
might contribute to Cdk5 action in regulating embryonic and adult neurogenesis,
highlighting future research directions that will help to clarify the mechanisms 
underlying lifelong neurogenesis in the mammalian brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.002 
PMCID: PMC2767479
PMID: 19782409  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Nov;32(11):566-74. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.001. Epub
2009 Sep 24.

Cingulate cortex: diverging data from humans and monkeys.

Cole MW(1), Yeung N, Freiwald WA, Botvinick M.

Author information: 
(1)Psychology Department, Washington University, St. Louis, MO 63130, USA.
mwcole@mwcole.net

Cognitive neuroscience research relies, in part, on homologies between the brains
of human and non-human primates. A quandary therefore arises when presumed
anatomical homologues exhibit different functional properties. Such a situation
has recently arisen in the case of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). In
humans, numerous studies suggest a role for ACC in detecting conflicts in
information processing. Studies of macaque monkey ACC, in contrast, have failed
to find conflict-related responses. We consider several interpretations of this
discrepancy, including differences in research methodology and cross-species
differences in functional neuroanatomy. New directions for future research are
outlined, emphasizing the importance of distinguishing illusory cross-species
differences from the true evolutionary differences that make our species unique.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.001 
PMID: 19781794  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Nov;32(11):591-601. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.06.002. Epub
2009 Sep 21.

Multiple roles of HDAC inhibition in neurodegenerative conditions.

Chuang DM(1), Leng Y, Marinova Z, Kim HJ, Chiu CT.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Section, National Institute of Mental Health, National 
Institutes of Health, 10 Center Drive MSC 1363, Bethesda, MD 20892-1363, USA.
chuang@mail.nih.gov

Histone deacetylases (HDACs) play a key role in homeostasis of protein
acetylation in histones and other proteins and in regulating fundamental cellular
activities such as transcription. A wide range of brain disorders are associated 
with imbalances in protein acetylation levels and transcriptional dysfunctions.
Treatment with various HDAC inhibitors can correct these deficiencies and has
emerged as a promising new strategy for therapeutic intervention in
neurodegenerative disease. Here, we review and discuss intriguing recent
developments in the use of HDAC inhibitors to combat neurodegenerative conditions
in cellular and disease models. HDAC inhibitors have neuroprotective,
neurotrophic and anti-inflammatory properties; improvements in neurological
performance, learning/memory and other disease phenotypes are frequently seen in 
these models. We discuss the targets and mechanisms underlying these effects of
HDAC inhibition and comment on the potential for some HDAC inhibitors to prove
clinically effective in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.06.002 
PMCID: PMC2771446
PMID: 19775759  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Nov;32(11):559-65. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.005. Epub
2009 Sep 11.

Squelching glioblastoma stem cells by targeting REST for proteasomal degradation.

Zhang P(1), Lathia JD, Flavahan WA, Rich JN, Mattson MP.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging Intramural Research
Program, Baltimore, MD, USA. zhangpe@grc.nia.nih.gov

Glioblastoma brain tumors harbor a small population of cancer stem cells that are
resistant to conventional chemotherapeutic and radiation treatments, and are
believed responsible for tumor recurrence and mortality. The identification of
the epigenetic molecular mechanisms that control self-renewal of glioblastoma
stem cells will foster development of targeted therapeutic approaches. The
transcriptional repressor REST, best known for its role in controlling cell fate 
decisions in neural progenitor cells, may also be crucial for cancer stem cell
self-renewal. Two novel mechanisms for regulating the stability of REST have
recently been revealed: these involve the telomere-binding protein TRF2 and the
ubiquitin E3 ligase SCFbeta-TrCP. Reduced TRF2 binding to REST, and increased
SCFbeta-TrCP activity, target REST for proteasomal degradation and thereby
inhibit cancer stem cell proliferation. Neurological side effects of treatments
that target REST and TRF2 may be less severe than conventional brain tumor
treatments because postmitotic neurons do not express REST and have relatively
stable telomeres.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.005 
PMCID: PMC2767465
PMID: 19748686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Nov;32(11):583-90. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.004. Epub
2009 Sep 2.

Visual processing, learning and feedback in the primate eye movement system.

Trommershäuser J(1), Glimcher PW, Gegenfurtner KR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Giessen University, Otto-Behaghel-Str. 10F, 35394
Giessen, Germany. julia.trommershaeuser@nyu.edu

We present an overview of recent paradigms used for studying visual information
and reward processing in the human and monkey oculomotor pathways. Current
evidence indicates that eye movements made during visual search tasks rely on
neural computations similar to those employed when eye movements are planned and 
executed to obtain explicit rewards. These data suggest that human eye movements 
originate from the processing of (predominantly visual) sensory information,
feedback about previous errors, and expectations about factors, such as reward.
We conclude that these properties make the saccadic system an ideal model for
studying both the behavioral and neural mechanisms for human voluntary and
involuntary choice behavior.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.004 
PMID: 19729211  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Oct;32(10):548-57. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.06.003. Epub
2009 Sep 16.

Metabolic brain networks in neurodegenerative disorders: a functional imaging
approach.

Eidelberg D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurosciences, The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, North 
Shore-LIJ Health System, Manhasset, NY, USA. david1@nshs.edu

Network analysis of functional brain imaging data is an innovative approach to
study circuit abnormalities in neurodegenerative diseases. In Parkinson's
disease, spatial covariance analysis of resting-state metabolic images has
identified specific regional patterns associated with motor and cognitive
symptoms. With functional imaging, these metabolic networks have recently been
used to measure system-related progression and to evaluate novel treatment
strategies. Network analysis is also being used to characterize specific
functional biomarkers for Huntington's disease and Alzheimer's disease. These
networks have been particularly helpful in uncovering compensatory mechanisms in 
genetically at-risk individuals. Ongoing developments in network applications are
likely to enhance the role of functional imaging in the investigation of
neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.06.003 
PMCID: PMC2782537
PMID: 19765835  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Oct;32(10):538-47. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.06.005. Epub
2009 Sep 16.

Looking BAC at striatal signaling: cell-specific analysis in new transgenic mice.

Valjent E(1), Bertran-Gonzalez J, Hervé D, Fisone G, Girault JA.

Author information: 
(1)Inserm, UMR-S 839, 75005 Paris, France. emmanuel.valjent@ki.se

Understanding how molecular signaling pathways participate in behavioral
responses requires determining precisely in which neuronal populations they are
activated. The recent development of bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC)
transgenic mice expressing a variety of reporters, epitope tagged-proteins or Cre
recombinase driven by specific promoters, is a significant step forward in this
direction. These mice help overcome the limitations of traditional approaches
that examine an average of signaling events occurring in mixed populations of
cells. Here, we review how recent studies using such tools have revisited the
regulation of striatal signaling pathways, demonstrating the striking segregation
between neurons expressing dopamine D1 and D2 receptors and significantly
extending our overall knowledge of striatal neurons. Thus, BAC transgenic mice
are changing the way to conceive experiments and provide an opportunity to fill
the gaps between molecular and systems neurosciences.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.06.005 
PMID: 19765834  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Oct;32(10):517-24. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.06.004. Epub
2009 Sep 14.

Roles for nigrostriatal--not just mesocorticolimbic--dopamine in reward and
addiction.

Wise RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral Neuroscience Branch, Intramural Research Program, National
Institute on Drug Abuse, National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, USA.
rwise@intra.nida.nih.gov

Forebrain dopamine circuitry has traditionally been studied by two largely
independent specialist groups: students of Parkinson's disease who study the
nigrostriatal dopamine system that originates in the substantia nigra (SN), and
students of motivation and addiction who study the role of the mesolimbic and
mesocortical dopamine systems that originate in the ventral tegmental area (VTA).
The anatomical evidence for independent nigrostriatal and mesolimbic dopamine
systems has, however, long been obsolete. There is now compelling evidence that
both nominal "systems" participate in reward function and addiction. Electrical
stimulation of both SN and VTA is rewarding, blockade of glutamatergic or
cholinergic input to either SN or VTA attenuates the habit-forming effects of
intravenous cocaine, and dopamine in both nigrostriatal and mesocorticolimbic
terminal fields participates in the defining property of rewarding events: the
reinforcement of memory consolidation. Thus, the similarities between
nigrostriatal and mesolimbic dopamine systems can be as important as their
differences.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.06.004 
PMCID: PMC2755633
PMID: 19758714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Oct;32(10):525-31. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.06.001. Epub
2009 Sep 14.

From the top down: flexible reading of a fragmented odor map.

Restrepo D(1), Doucette W, Whitesell JD, McTavish TS, Salcedo E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Developmental Biology and Neuroscience Program,
University of Colorado Denver, Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO 80045, USA.
Diego.Restrepo@ucdenver.edu

Animals that depend on smell for communication and survival extract multiple
pieces of information from a single complex odor. Mice can collect information on
sex, genotype, health and dietary status from urine scent marks, a stimulus made 
up of hundreds of molecules. This ability is all the more remarkable considering 
that natural odors are encountered against varying olfactory backgrounds; the
olfactory system must therefore provide some mechanism for extracting the most
relevant information. Here we discuss recent data indicating that the readout of 
olfactory input by mitral cells in the olfactory bulb can be modified by
behavioral context. We speculate that the olfactory cortex plays a key role in
tuning the readout of olfactory information from the olfactory bulb.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.06.001 
PMCID: PMC2841794
PMID: 19758713  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Oct;32(10):532-7. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.003. Epub
2009 Sep 4.

Glutamate synapse in developing brain: an integrative perspective beyond the
silent state.

Hanse E(1), Taira T, Lauri S, Groc L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Goteborg University, Goteborg 40530, Sweden.

Cellular events underlying the establishment of glutamate transmission have been 
the focus of attention because appropriate wiring of developing neuronal networks
is essential for adult brain functions. Although establishment of a synapse is a 
dynamic process requiring axonal and dendritic refinements, the functional
interplay between pre- and postsynaptic signaling is often ignored. Here, we
discuss recent data on pre- and postsynaptic plasticity of the glutamate synapse 
in the developing brain. The key aspect of the proposed model is that developing 
synapses are functionally labile in response to activity and this lability is
counteracted by Hebbian activity. Both presynaptic and postsynaptic (loss of AMPA
receptor signaling) mechanisms contribute to lability. Therefore, synapses in the
developing brain maintain their capacity for functional AMPA signaling either by 
being presynaptically silent or by having participated in Hebbian activity; any
synaptic activity outside this context leads instead to AMPA silencing and
possible synaptic elimination.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.07.003 
PMID: 19733923  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Sep;32(9):506-16. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.009. Epub
2009 Aug 26.

Air pollution: mechanisms of neuroinflammation and CNS disease.

Block ML(1), Calderón-Garcidueñas L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Virginia Commonwealth University
Medical Campus, Richmond, VA 23298, USA. MBlock@vcu.edu

Air pollution has been implicated as a chronic source of neuroinflammation and
reactive oxygen species (ROS) that produce neuropathology and central nervous
system (CNS) disease. Stroke incidence and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease
pathology are linked to air pollution. Recent reports reveal that air pollution
components reach the brain; systemic effects that impact lung and cardiovascular 
disease also impinge upon CNS health. While mechanisms driving air
pollution-induced CNS pathology are poorly understood, new evidence suggests that
microglial activation and changes in the blood-brain barrier are key components. 
Here we summarize recent findings detailing the mechanisms through which air
pollution reaches the brain and activates the resident innate immune response to 
become a chronic source of pro-inflammatory factors and ROS, culminating in CNS
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.009 
PMCID: PMC2743793
PMID: 19716187  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Sep;32(9):463-75. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.006. Epub
2009 Aug 26.

Microsaccades: a neurophysiological analysis.

Martinez-Conde S(1), Macknik SL, Troncoso XG, Hubel DH.

Author information: 
(1)Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, AZ, USA. smart@neuralcorrelate.com

Microsaccades are the largest and fastest of the fixational eye movements, which 
are involuntary eye movements produced during attempted visual fixation. In
recent years, the interaction between microsaccades, perception and cognition has
become one of the most rapidly growing areas of study in visual neuroscience. The
neurophysiological consequences of microsaccades have been the focus of less
attention, however, as have the oculomotor mechanisms that generate and control
microsaccades. Here we review the latest neurophysiological findings concerning
microsaccades and discuss their relationships to perception and cognition. We
also point out the current gaps in our understanding of the neurobiology of
microsaccades and identify the most promising lines of enquiry.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.006 
PMID: 19716186  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Sep;32(9):476-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.008. Epub
2009 Aug 26.

Animal consciousness: a synthetic approach.

Edelman DB(1), Seth AK.

Author information: 
(1)The Neurosciences Institute, 10640 John Jay Hopkins Drive, San Diego, CA
92121, USA. david_edelman@nsi.edu

Despite anecdotal evidence suggesting conscious states in a variety of non-human 
animals, no systematic neuroscientific investigation of animal consciousness has 
yet been undertaken. We set forth a framework for such an investigation that
incorporates integration of data from neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, and
behavioral studies, uses evidence from humans as a benchmark, and recognizes the 
critical role of explicit verbal report of conscious experiences in human
studies. We illustrate our framework with reference to two subphyla: one
relatively near to mammals - birds - and one quite far -cephalopod molluscs.
Consistent with the possibility of conscious states, both subphyla exhibit
complex behavior and possess sophisticated nervous systems. Their further
investigation may reveal common phyletic conditions and neural substrates
underlying the emergence of animal consciousness.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.008 
PMID: 19716185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Sep;32(9):496-505. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.010. Epub
2009 Aug 25.

From selective vulnerability to connectivity: insights from newborn brain
imaging.

Miller SP(1), Ferriero DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of British Columbia.

The ability to image the newborn brain during development has provided new
information regarding the effects of injury on brain development at different
vulnerable time periods. Studies in animal models of brain injury correlate
beautifully with what is now observed in the human newborn. We now know that
injury at term primarily results in grey matter injury while injury in the
premature brain predominantly results in a pattern of white matter injury, though
recent evidence suggests a blurring of this distinction . These injuries affect
how the brain matures subsequently and again, imaging has led to new insights
that allow us to match function and structure. This review will focus on these
patterns of injury that are so crucially determined by age at insult. In
addition, this review will highlight how the brain responds to these insults with
changes in connectivity that have profound functional consequences.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.010 
PMCID: PMC2743801
PMID: 19712981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Sep;32(9):485-95. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.007. Epub
2009 Aug 26.

Neurodevelopmental mechanisms of schizophrenia: understanding disturbed postnatal
brain maturation through neuregulin-1-ErbB4 and DISC1.

Jaaro-Peled H(1), Hayashi-Takagi A, Seshadri S, Kamiya A, Brandon NJ, Sawa A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Neurosciences, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA.

Schizophrenia (SZ) is primarily an adult psychiatric disorder in which
disturbances caused by susceptibility genes and environmental insults during
early neurodevelopment initiate neurophysiological changes over a long time
course, culminating in the onset of full-blown disease nearly two decades later. 
Aberrant postnatal brain maturation is an essential mechanism underlying the
disease. Currently, symptoms of SZ are treated with anti-psychotic medications
that have variable efficacy and severe side effects. There has been much interest
in the prodromal phase and the possibility of preventing SZ by interfering with
the aberrant postnatal brain maturation associated with this disorder. Thus, it
is crucial to understand the mechanisms that underlie the long-term progression
to full disease manifestation to identify the best targets and approaches towards
this goal. We believe that studies of certain SZ genetic susceptibility factors
with neurodevelopmental implications will be key tools in this task. Accumulating
evidence suggests that neuregulin-1 (NRG1) and disrupted-in-schizophrenia-1
(DISC1) are probably functionally convergent and play key roles in brain
development. We provide an update on the role of these emerging concepts in
understanding the complex time course of SZ from early neurodevelopmental
disturbances to later onset and suggest ways of testing these in the future.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.007 
PMCID: PMC2755075
PMID: 19712980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Aug;32(8):432-42. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.004. Epub
2009 Jul 28.

Functional versatility of transcription factors in the nervous system: the SRF
paradigm.

Knöll B(1), Nordheim A.

Author information: 
(1)Neuronal Gene Expression Laboratory, Eberhard-Karls-University Tübingen,
Interfaculty Institute for Cell Biology, Department of Molecular Biology, Auf der
Morgenstelle 15, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. bernd.knoell@uni-tuebingen.de

Individual transcription factors in the brain frequently display broad functional
versatility, thereby controlling multiple cellular outputs. In accordance,
neuron-restricted mutagenesis of the murine Srf gene, encoding the transcription 
factor serum response factor (SRF), revealed numerous SRF functions in the
nervous system. First, SRF controls immediate early gene (IEG) activation
associated with perception of synaptic activity, learning and memory. Second,
processes linked to actin cytoskeletal dynamics are mediated by SRF, such as
developmental neuronal migration, outgrowth and pathfinding of neurites, as well 
as synaptic targeting. Therefore, SRF seems to be instrumental in converting
synaptic activity into plasticity-associated structural changes in neuronal
connectivities. This highlights the decisive role of SRF in integrating
cytoskeletal actin dynamics and nuclear gene expression. Finally, we relate SRF
to the multi-functional transcription factor CREB and point out overlapping,
distinct and concerted functions of these two transcriptional regulators in the
brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.004 
PMID: 19643506  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Aug;32(8):413-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.002. Epub
2009 Jul 27.

Reconsolidation: maintaining memory relevance.

Lee JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT,
UK. j.l.c.lee@bham.ac.uk

The retrieval of a memory places it into a plastic state, the result of which is 
that the memory can be disrupted or even enhanced by experimental treatment. This
phenomenon has been conceptualised within a framework of memories being
reactivated and then reconsolidated in repeated rounds of cellular processing.
The reconsolidation phase has been seized upon as crucial for the understanding
of memory stability and, more recently, as a potential therapeutic target in the 
treatment of disorders such as post-traumatic stress and drug addiction. However,
little is known about the reactivation process, or what might be the adaptive
function of retrieval-induced plasticity. Reconsolidation has long been proposed 
to mediate memory updating, but only recently has this hypothesis been supported 
experimentally. Here, the adaptive function of memory reconsolidation is explored
in more detail, with a strong emphasis on its role in updating memories to
maintain their relevance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.002 
PMCID: PMC3650827
PMID: 19640595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Aug;32(8):451-61. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.005. Epub
2009 Jul 27.

Recent insights into the molecular genetics of dementia.

Rademakers R(1), Rovelet-Lecrux A.

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Clinic, Department of Neuroscience, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.
rademakers.rosa@mayo.edu

Our understanding of the molecular genetic basis of two common neurodegenerative 
dementias, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD),
has greatly advanced in recent years. Progranulin mutations were identified as a 
major cause of FTLD and a potential susceptibility factor for other forms of
dementia. In addition, through copy-number analyses of previously identified
disease genes and the study of microRNA regulation in dementia, new evidence
emerged to support the view that subtle variability in the expression of known
disease proteins could increase the risk for sporadic forms of dementia. Finally,
in late-onset AD populations, the first genome-wide association studies were
performed and novel potential AD susceptibility genes reported. These exciting
findings provide novel insights into the disease mechanisms underlying dementia
and hold promise for the development of potential treatments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.005 
PMCID: PMC2864783
PMID: 19640594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Aug;32(8):443-50. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.003. Epub
2009 Jul 25.

Neocortical neurogenesis: morphogenetic gradients and beyond.

Caviness VS Jr(1), Nowakowski RS, Bhide PG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114,
USA. caviness@helix.mgh.harvard.edu

Each of the five cellular layers of the cerebral neocortex is composed of a
specific number of a single predominant 'class' of projection neuron. The
projection neuron class is defined by its unique morphology and axonal
projections to other areas of the brain. Precursor cell populations lining the
embryonic lateral ventricles produce the projection neurons. The mechanisms
regulating precursor cell proliferation also regulate total numbers of neurons
produced at specific developmental periods and destined to a specific neocortical
layer. Because the newborn neurons migrate relatively long distances to reach
their final layer destinations, it is often assumed that the mechanisms governing
acquisition of neuronal-class-specific characteristics, many of which become
evident after neuron production, are independent of the mechanisms governing
neuron production. We review evidence that suggests that the two mechanisms might
be linked via operations of Notch1 and p27(Kip1), molecules known to regulate
precursor cell proliferation and neuron production.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.003 
PMCID: PMC2725216
PMID: 19635637  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Aug;32(8):421-31. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.001. Epub
2009 Jul 15.

Tripartite synapses: astrocytes process and control synaptic information.

Perea G(1), Navarrete M, Araque A.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Cajal, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Madrid
28002, Spain.

The term 'tripartite synapse' refers to a concept in synaptic physiology based on
the demonstration of the existence of bidirectional communication between
astrocytes and neurons. Consistent with this concept, in addition to the classic 
'bipartite' information flow between the pre- and postsynaptic neurons,
astrocytes exchange information with the synaptic neuronal elements, responding
to synaptic activity and, in turn, regulating synaptic transmission. Because
recent evidence has demonstrated that astrocytes integrate and process synaptic
information and control synaptic transmission and plasticity, astrocytes, being
active partners in synaptic function, are cellular elements involved in the
processing, transfer and storage of information by the nervous system.
Consequently, in contrast to the classically accepted paradigm that brain
function results exclusively from neuronal activity, there is an emerging view,
which we review herein, in which brain function actually arises from the
coordinated activity of a network comprising both neurons and glia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.05.001 
PMID: 19615761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jul;32(7):402-12. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.04.003. Epub
2009 Jun 21.

The emerging role of synaptic cell-adhesion pathways in the pathogenesis of
autism spectrum disorders.

Betancur C(1), Sakurai T, Buxbaum JD.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Paris, France.

Recent advances in genetics and genomics have unveiled numerous cases of autism
spectrum disorders (ASDs) associated with rare, causal genetic variations. These 
findings support a novel view of ASDs in which many independent, individually
rare genetic variants, each associated with a very high relative risk, together
explain a large proportion of ASDs. Although these rare variants impact diverse
pathways, there is accumulating evidence that synaptic pathways, including those 
involving synaptic cell adhesion, are disrupted in some subjects with ASD. These 
findings provide insights into the pathogenesis of ASDs and enable the
development of model systems with construct validity for specific causes of ASDs.
In several neurodevelopmental disorders frequently associated with ASD, including
fragile X syndrome, Rett syndrome and tuberous sclerosis, animal models have led 
to the development of new therapeutic approaches, giving rise to optimism with
other causes of ASDs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.04.003 
PMID: 19541375  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jul;32(7):383-91. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.03.004. Epub
2009 Jun 21.

Feature detection and the hypercomplex property in insects.

Nordström K(1), O'Carroll DC.

Author information: 
(1)The University of Adelaide, Australia. karin.nordstrom@adelaide.edu.au

Discerning a target amongst visual 'clutter' is a complicated task that has been 
elegantly solved by flying insects, as evidenced by their mid-air interactions
with conspecifics and prey. The neurophysiology of small-target motion detectors 
(STMDs) underlying these complex behaviors has recently been described and
suggests that insects use mechanisms similar to those of hypercomplex cells of
the mammalian visual cortex to achieve target-specific tuning. Cortical
hypercomplex cells are end-stopped, which means that they respond optimally to
small moving targets, with responses to extended bars attenuated. We review not
only the underlying mechanisms involved in this tuning but also how recently
proposed models provide a possible explanation for another remarkable property of
these neurons - their ability to respond robustly to the motion of targets even
against moving backgrounds.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.03.004 
PMID: 19541374  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jul;32(7):392-401. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.04.001. Epub
2009 Jun 11.

Nucleocytoplasmic protein shuttling: the direct route in synapse-to-nucleus
signaling.

Jordan BA(1), Kreutz MR.

Author information: 
(1)Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Dominick P. Purpura Department of
Neuroscience, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

In neurons multiple signaling pathways converge in the nucleus to regulate the
expression of genes associated with long-term structural changes of
synapto-dendritic input. Of pivotal importance for this type of transcriptional
regulation is synapse-to-nucleus communication. Several studies suggest that the 
nuclear transport of proteins from synapses is involved in this signaling
process, including evidence that synapses contain proteins with nuclear
localization sequences and components of the nuclear import machinery. Here, we
review the evidence for synapse-to-nucleus signaling by means of retrograde
transport of proteins from distal processes. We discuss the mechanisms involved
in their translocation and their role in the control of nuclear gene expression. 
Finally, we summarize the current thinking regarding the functional implications 
of nuclear signaling and address open questions in this evolving area of
neuroscience.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.04.001 
PMID: 19524307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jul;32(7):376-82. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.04.002. Epub
2009 Jun 10.

Convergence and divergence in a neural architecture for recognition and memory.

Meyer K(1), Damasio A.

Author information: 
(1)Brain and Creativity Institute, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, 90089-2520, USA. kaspar.meyer@usc.edu

How does the brain represent external reality so that it can be perceived in the 
form of mental images? How are the representations stored in memory so that an
approximation of their original content can be re-experienced during recall? A
framework introduced in the late 1980s proposed that mental images arise from
neural activity in early sensory cortices both during perception and recall.
Neurons in the association cortices, by contrast, would not code explicit mental 
content; rather, they would hold the records needed to reconstruct an
approximation of the original perceptual maps in early cortices. Several
neurophysiological and neuroimaging studies now lend growing support to this
proposal.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.04.002 
PMID: 19520438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jul;32(7):367-75. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.03.003. Epub
2009 Jun 10.

Immune senescence and brain aging: can rejuvenation of immunity reverse memory
loss?

Ron-Harel N(1), Schwartz M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot,
Israel.

The factors that determine brain aging remain a mystery. Do brain aging and
memory loss reflect processes occurring only within the brain? Here, we present a
novel view, linking aging of adaptive immunity to brain senescence and
specifically to spatial memory deterioration. Inborn immune deficiency, in
addition to sudden imposition of immune malfunction in young animals, results in 
cognitive impairment. As a corollary, immune restoration at adulthood or in the
elderly results in a reversal of memory loss. These results, together with the
known deterioration of adaptive immunity in the elderly, suggest that memory loss
does not solely reflect chronological age; rather, it is an outcome of the gap
between an increasing demand for maintenance (age-related risk-factor
accumulation) and the reduced ability of the immune system to meet these needs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.03.003 
PMID: 19520437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jun;32(6):321-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.02.005. Epub 2009
May 14.

Functional imaging of the human dopaminergic midbrain.

Düzel E(1), Bunzeck N, Guitart-Masip M, Wittmann B, Schott BH, Tobler PN.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, 17 Queen
Square, London, WC13 NAR, UK. e.duzel@ucl.ac.uk

Invasive recording of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra and ventral
tegmental area (SN/VTA) of behaving animals suggests a role for these neurons in 
reward learning and novelty processing. In humans, functional magnetic resonance 
imaging (fMRI) is currently the only non-invasive event-related method to measure
SN/VTA activity, but it is debated to what extent fMRI enables inference about
dopaminergic responses within the SN/VTA. We consider the anatomical and
functional parcellation of the primate SN/VTA and find that its homogeneity
suggests little variation in the regional specificity of fMRI signals for
reward-related dopaminergic responses. Hence, these responses seem to be well
captured by the compound fMRI signal from the SN/VTA, which seems quantitatively 
related to dopamine release in positron emission tomography (PET). We outline how
systematic investigation of the functional parcellation of the SN/VTA in animals,
new developments in fMRI analysis and combined PET-fMRI studies can narrow the
gap between fMRI and dopaminergic neurotransmission.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.02.005 
PMID: 19446348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jun;32(6):359-65. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.011. Epub
2009 May 6.

Associative learning and the genetics of schizophrenia.

Hall J(1), Romaniuk L, McIntosh AM, Steele JD, Johnstone EC, Lawrie SM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Psychiatry, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, EH10 5HF, UK.
jhall5@staffmail.ed.ac.uk

Several well-validated susceptibility genes for schizophrenia have now been
identified. We suggest that these genes can be divided into two broad classes.
Those in the first class have direct effects on synaptic plasticity mediated
through actions at glutamatergic synapses; those in the second class impact on
meso-limbic dopamine signalling. We argue that these genes have an interactive
effect on risk for psychosis and that this interaction can be understood in the
context of associative learning theory. We illustrate how genetic variation in
genes from these classes can contribute to the development of psychosis using
data from the Edinburgh High Risk Study of schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.011 
PMID: 19427043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jun;32(6):339-46. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.010. Epub
2009 May 4.

No NO, no pain? The role of nitric oxide and cGMP in spinal pain processing.

Schmidtko A(1), Tegeder I, Geisslinger G.

Author information: 
(1)Pharmazentrum frankfurt/ZAFES, Institut für Klinische Pharmakologie, Klinikum 
der Goethe-Universität, Theodor-Stern-Kai 7, 60590 Frankfurt/Main, Germany.
schmidtko@em.uni-frankfurt.de

A large body of evidence indicates that nitric oxide (NO) and cyclic guanosine
monophosphate (cGMP) essentially contribute to the processing of nociceptive
signals in the spinal cord. Many animal studies have unanimously shown that
inhibition of NO or cGMP synthesis can considerably reduce both inflammatory and 
neuropathic pain. However, experiments with NO donors and cGMP analogs also
caused conflicting results because dual pronociceptive and antinociceptive
effects of these molecules have been observed. Here, we summarize the most recent
advances in the understanding of NO- and cGMP-dependent signaling pathways in the
spinal cord and further unravel the role of NO and cGMP in pain processing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.010 
PMID: 19414201  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jun;32(6):347-58. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.02.003. Epub
2009 May 4.

Modeling cognitive endophenotypes of schizophrenia in mice.

Kellendonk C(1), Simpson EH, Kandel ER.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University, 1051 Riverside Drive, New York,
NY 10032, USA. ck491@columbia.edu

Schizophrenia is a complex mental disorder that is still characterized by its
symptoms rather than by biological markers because we have only a limited
knowledge of its underlying molecular basis. In the past two decades, however,
technical advances in genetics and brain imaging have provided new insights into 
the biology of the disease. Based on these advances we are now in a position to
develop animal models that can be used to test specific hypotheses of the disease
and explore mechanisms of pathogenesis. Here, we consider some of the insights
that have emerged from studying in mice the relationship between defined genetic 
and molecular alterations and the cognitive endophenotypes of schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.02.003 
PMCID: PMC4928481
PMID: 19409625  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jun;32(6):312-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.02.004. Epub
2009 May 4.

From high anxiety trait to depression: a neurocognitive hypothesis.

Sandi C(1), Richter-Levin G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Behavioral Genetics, Brain Mind Institute, Ecole Polytechnique
Federale de Lausanne (EPFL), Lausanne CH-1015, Switzerland. carmen.sandi@epfl.ch

Although exposure to substantial stress has a major impact on the development of 
depression, there is considerable variability in the susceptibility of
individuals to the adverse effects of stress. The personality trait of high
anxiety has been identified as a vulnerability factor to develop depression. We
propose here a new unifying model based on a series of neurocognitive mechanisms 
(and fed with crucial information provided by research on the fields of emotion, 
stress and cognition) whereby individuals presenting a high anxiety trait are
particularly vulnerable to develop depression when facing stress and adversity.
Our model highlights the importance of developing prevention programs addressed
to restrain, in high anxious individuals, the triggering of a dysfunctional
neurocognitive cascade while coping with stress.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.02.004 
PMID: 19409624  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jun;32(6):329-38. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.009. Epub
2009 May 4.

The hippocampal rate code: anatomy, physiology and theory.

Ahmed OJ(1), Mehta MR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, USA.
omar@brown.edu

Since the days of Cajal, the CA1 pyramidal cell has arguably received more
attention than any other neuron in the mammalian brain. Hippocampal CA1 pyramidal
cells fire spikes with remarkable spatial and temporal precision, giving rise to 
the hippocampal rate and temporal codes. However, little is known about how
different inputs interact during spatial behavior to generate such robust firing 
patterns. Here, we review the properties of the rodent hippocampal rate code and 
synthesize work from several disciplines to understand the functional anatomy and
excitation-inhibition balance that can produce the rate-coded outputs of the CA1 
pyramidal cell. We argue that both CA3 and entorhinal inputs are crucial for the 
formation of sharp, sparse CA1 place fields and that precisely timed and dominant
inhibition is an equally important factor.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.009 
PMCID: PMC3066563
PMID: 19406485  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jun;32(6):303-11. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.008. Epub
2009 May 3.

Common astrocytic programs during brain development, injury and cancer.

Silver DJ(1), Steindler DA.

Author information: 
(1)The Evelyn F. and William L. McKnight Brain Institute, The University of
Florida, 100 South Newell Drive, P.O. Box 100015, Gainesville, FL 32610-0015,
USA.

In addition to radial glial cells of neurohistogenesis, immature astrocytes with 
stem-cell-like properties cordon off emerging functional patterns in the
developing brain. Astrocytes also can be stem cells during adult neurogenesis,
and a proposed potency of injury-associated reactive astrocytes has recently been
substantiated. Astrocytic cells might additionally be involved in cancer stem
cell-associated gliomagenesis. Thus, there are distinguishing roles for
stem-cell-like astrocytes during brain development, in neurogenic niches in the
adult, during attempted reactive neurogenesis after brain injury or disease and
during brain tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.008 
PMCID: PMC3033226
PMID: 19398132  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Trends Neurosci. 2009 May;32(5):291-301. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.007. Epub
2009 Apr 18.

Decision by division: making cortical maps.

Rakic P(1), Ayoub AE, Breunig JJ, Dominguez MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Kavli Institute of Neuroscience, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, USA. pasko.rakic@yale.edu

In the past three decades, mounting evidence has revealed that specification of
the basic cortical neuronal classes starts at the time of their final mitotic
divisions in the embryonic proliferative zones. This early cell determination
continues during the migration of the newborn neurons across the widening
cerebral wall, and it is in the cortical plate that they attain their final
positions and establish species-specific cytoarchitectonic areas. Here, the
development and evolutionary expansion of the neocortex is viewed in the context 
of the radial unit and protomap hypotheses. A broad spectrum of findings gave
insight into the pathogenesis of cortical malformations and the biological bases 
for the evolution of the modern human neocortex. We examine the history and
evidence behind the concept of early specification of neurons and provide the
latest compendium of genes and signaling molecules involved in neuronal fate
determination and specification.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.007 
PMCID: PMC3601545
PMID: 19380167  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Trends Neurosci. 2009 May;32(5):241-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.03.002. Epub 2009
Apr 8.

Purinergic signalling in autonomic control.

Gourine AV(1), Wood JD, Burnstock G.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience, Physiology and Pharmacology, University College London, London, 
WC1E 6BT, UK. a.gourine@ucl.ac.uk

Intercellular purinergic signalling, which utilizes ATP as a transmitter, is
fundamental for the operation of the autonomic nervous system. ATP is released
together with 'classical' transmitters from sympathetic and parasympathetic
nerves supplying various peripheral targets, modulates neurotransmission in
autonomic ganglia, has an important role in local enteric neural control and
coordination of intestinal secretion and motility, and acts as a common mediator 
for several distinct sensory modalities. Recently, the role of ATP-mediated
signalling in the central nervous control of autonomic function has been
addressed. Emerging data demonstrate that in the brain ATP is involved in the
operation of several key cardiorespiratory reflexes, contributes to central
processing of viscerosensory information, mediates central CO(2) chemosensory
transduction and triggers adaptive changes in breathing, and modulates the
activities of the brainstem vagal preganglionic, presympathetic and respiratory
neural networks.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.03.002 
PMID: 19359051  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Trends Neurosci. 2009 May;32(5):283-90. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.007. Epub
2009 Apr 6.

Exercise and the brain: something to chew on.

van Praag H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroplasticity and Behavior Unit, Laboratory of Neurosciences, Intramural
Research Program, National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health,
Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. vanpraagh@mail.nih.gov

Evidence is accumulating that exercise has profound benefits for brain function. 
Physical activity improves learning and memory in humans and animals. Moreover,
an active lifestyle might prevent or delay loss of cognitive function with aging 
or neurodegenerative disease. Recent research indicates that the effects of
exercise on the brain can be enhanced by concurrent consumption of natural
products such as omega fatty acids or plant polyphenols. The potential synergy
between diet and exercise could involve common cellular pathways important for
neurogenesis, cell survival, synaptic plasticity and vascular function. Optimal
maintenance of brain health might depend on exercise and intake of natural
products.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.007 
PMCID: PMC2680508
PMID: 19349082  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Trends Neurosci. 2009 May;32(5):249-56. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.006. Epub
2009 Mar 21.

Calcium homeostasis, selective vulnerability and Parkinson's disease.

Chan CS(1), Gertler TS, Surmeier DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern
University, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder of which the core
motor symptoms are attributable to the degeneration of dopamine (DA) neurons in
the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc). Recent work has revealed that the
engagement of L-type Ca(2+) channels during autonomous pacemaking renders SNc DA 
neurons susceptible to mitochondrial toxins used to create animal models of PD,
indicating that homeostatic Ca(2+) stress could be a determinant of their
selective vulnerability. This view is buttressed by the central role of
mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum (linchpins of current theories about
the origins of PD) in Ca(2+) homeostasis. Here, we summarize this evidence and
suggest the dual roles had by these organelles could compromise their function,
leading to accelerated aging of SNc DA neurons, particularly in the face of
genetic or environmental stress. We conclude with a discussion of potential
therapeutic strategies for slowing the progression of PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.006 
PMCID: PMC4831702
PMID: 19307031  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Trends Neurosci. 2009 May;32(5):275-82. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.004. Epub
2009 Mar 21.

Friends and foes in synaptic transmission: the role of tomosyn in vesicle
priming.

Ashery U(1), Bielopolski N, Barak B, Yizhar O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel Aviv University, Tel
Aviv 69978, Israel. uria@post.tau.ac.il

Priming is the process by which vesicles become available for fusion at nerve
terminals and is modulated by numerous proteins and second messengers. One of the
prominent members of this diverse family is tomosyn. Tomosyn has been identified 
as a syntaxin-binding protein; it inhibits vesicle priming, but its mode of
action is not fully understood. The inhibitory activity of tomosyn depends on its
N-terminal WD40-repeat domain and is regulated by the binding of its SNARE motif 
to syntaxin. Here, we describe new physiological information on the function of
tomosyn and address possible interpretations of these results in the framework of
the recently described crystal structure of the yeast tomosyn homolog Sro7. We
also present possible molecular scenarios for vesicle priming and the involvement
of tomosyn in these processes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.004 
PMCID: PMC2713869
PMID: 19307030  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Trends Neurosci. 2009 May;32(5):257-66. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.005. Epub
2009 Mar 21.

MRI in small brains displaying extensive plasticity.

Van der Linden A(1), Van Meir V, Boumans T, Poirier C, Balthazart J.

Author information: 
(1)Bio-Imaging Lab, University of Antwerp, B-2020 Antwerp, Belgium.
annemie.vanderlinden@ua.ac.be

Manganese-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (ME-MRI), blood
oxygen-level-dependent functional MRI (BOLD fMRI) and diffusion tensor imaging
(DTI) can now be applied to animal species as small as mice or songbirds. These
techniques confirmed previous findings but are also beginning to reveal new
phenomena that were difficult or impossible to study previously. These imaging
techniques will lead to major technical and conceptual advances in systems
neurosciences. We illustrate these new developments with studies of the song
control and auditory systems in songbirds, a spatially organized neuronal
circuitry that mediates the acquisition, production and perception of complex
learned vocalizations. This neural system is an outstanding model for studying
vocal learning, brain steroid hormone action, brain plasticity and lateralization
of brain function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.005 
PMID: 19307029  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Trends Neurosci. 2009 May;32(5):267-74. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.003. Epub
2009 Mar 18.

Variability in the subcellular distribution of ion channels increases neuronal
diversity.

Nusser Z(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Neurophysiology, Institute of Experimental Medicine,
Hungarian Academy of Sciences, 1083 Budapest, Hungary. nusser@koki.hu

The exact location of an ion channel on the axo-somato-dendritic surface of a
nerve cell crucially affects its functional impact. Recent high-resolution
immunolocalization experiments examining the distribution of GABA and glutamate
receptors, voltage-gated potassium and sodium channels and
hyperpolarization-activated mixed cation (HCN) channels clearly demonstrate the
lack of simple rules concerning their subcellular distribution. For example, the 
density of HCN1 subunits in pyramidal cells increases 60-fold from soma to distal
dendrites but is uniform over the somato-dendritic surface of olfactory bulb
external tufted cells and is highest in the axon of cortical and cerebellar
basket cells. Such findings highlight the necessity of determining the precise
subcellular location and density of each ion channel in every cell type. Here, I 
suggest that variations in the subcellular distribution of ion channels are
previously unrecognized means of increasing neuronal diversity and, thus, the
computational power of the brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.003 
PMID: 19299025  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Apr;32(4):215-24. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.006. Epub
2009 Mar 13.

Hot flash: TRPV channels in the brain.

Kauer JA(1), Gibson HE.

Author information: 
(1)Brown University, Department of Molecular Pharmacology, Physiology and
Biotechnology, Providence, RI 02912, USA. julie_kauer@brown.edu

TRPV1 (transient receptor potential, vanilloid) channels belong to a family of
ligand-gated ion channels gated not only by the binding of certain lipophilic
molecules but also by extracellular protons and physical stimuli such as heat or 
osmotic pressure changes. These nonselective cation channels are permeable to
Na(+) and K(+) and are also very Ca(2+) permeable; in fact, TRPV1 is as Ca(2+)
permeable as the NMDA receptor channel and can, thus, act as a trigger for
Ca(2+)-mediated cell signaling. Although these channels are highly expressed in
primary sensory afferents, accumulating evidence indicates that TRPV family
channels are also present in the brain. Here, we review evidence that TRPV
channels in the central nervous system might contribute to many basic neuronal
functions including resting membrane potential, neurotransmitter release and
synaptic plasticity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.006 
PMID: 19285736  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Apr;32(4):189-98. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.002. Epub
2009 Mar 11.

Trophic functions of nucleotides in the central nervous system.

Neary JT(1), Zimmermann H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of
Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL 33125, USA.

In addition to short-term effects, one of the fundamental roles of extracellular 
nucleotides in the central nervous system involves long-term trophic effects.
Physiological outcomes include neurogenesis, neuronal differentiation, glial
proliferation, migration, growth arrest and apoptosis. Nucleotides exert these
functions via P2-receptor-mediated mechanisms that can also interact with
polypeptide-growth-factor-mediated or integrin-mediated signaling pathways. In
addition, pathogenic roles for extracellular nucleotides in response to central
nervous system injury including trauma and ischemia have been observed after the 
release of nucleotides by damaged and dying cells and in the development of
neuropathic and inflammatory pain. Here, we illuminate the contribution of
extracellular nucleotides to the development, growth, cellular plasticity and
death of neural cells and the mechanisms regulating these trophic effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.002 
PMID: 19282037  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Apr;32(4):225-32. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.005. Epub
2009 Mar 5.

Psychedelics and schizophrenia.

González-Maeso J(1), Sealfon SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, 
USA.

Research on psychedelics such as lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and
dissociative drugs such as phencyclidine (PCP) and the symptoms, neurochemical
abnormalities and treatment of schizophrenia have converged. The effects of
hallucinogenic drugs resemble some of the core symptoms of schizophrenia. Some
atypical antipsychotic drugs were identified by their high affinity for serotonin
5-HT(2A) receptors, which is also the target of LSD-like drugs. Several effects
of PCP-like drugs are strongly affected by both 5-HT(2A) and metabotropic
glutamate 2/3 receptor modulation. A serotonin-glutamate receptor complex in
cortical pyramidal neurons has been identified that might be the target both of
psychedelics and the atypical and glutamate classes of antipsychotic drugs.
Recent results on the receptor, signalling and circuit mechanisms underlying the 
response to psychedelic and antipsychotic drugs might lead to unification of the 
serotonin and glutamate neurochemical hypotheses of schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.005 
PMID: 19269047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Apr;32(4):233-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.004. Epub 2009
Mar 4.

Enrich the environment to empower the brain.

Sale A(1), Berardi N, Maffei L.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology, Scuola Normale Superiore, I-56100, Pisa, Italy.
sale@sns.it

Environmental enrichment (EE) has long been exploited to investigate the
influence of the environment on brain structure and function. Robust
morphological and functional effects elicited by EE at the neuronal level have
been reported to be accompanied by improvements in cognitive performance.
Recently, EE has been shown to accelerate the development of the visual system
and to enhance visual-cortex plasticity in adulthood. These new findings
highlight the potential of EE as a promising non-invasive strategy to ameliorate 
deficits in the maturation of the nervous system and to promote recovery of
normal sensory functions in pathological conditions affecting the adult brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.004 
PMID: 19268375  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Apr;32(4):199-206. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.003. Epub
2009 Mar 4.

Alterations of the microRNA network cause neurodegenerative disease.

Hébert SS(1), De Strooper B.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Genetics, K.U. Leuven, Herestraat 49 bus 602, B-3000 Leuven, 
Belgium.

Brain development crucially depends on the integrity of microRNA (miRNA)
pathways, which function at the post-transcriptional level as a rheostat of the
transcriptome and proteome of the cell. miRNAs are also involved in many other,
more specific, aspects of neuronal function such as neurite outgrowth and synapse
formation. Complete loss of miRNA expression in the brain leads to
neurodegeneration in several animal models. Evidence from patient material is
emerging that miRNA dysregulation could, indeed, contribute to neurodegenerative 
disorders. The translation of proteins previously implicated in familial forms of
disease seems to be under control of miRNAs, and changes in miRNAs might explain 
how these proteins become affected in sporadic neurodegenerative disease. Thus,
miRNAs are moving rapidly center stage as key regulators of neuronal development 
and function in addition to important contributors to neurodegenerative disorder.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.003 
PMID: 19268374  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Apr;32(4):207-14. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.008. Epub
2009 Feb 23.

Olfactory oscillations: the what, how and what for.

Kay LM(1), Beshel J, Brea J, Martin C, Rojas-Líbano D, Kopell N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, The University of Chicago, IL 60637, USA.
lkay@uchicago.edu

Olfactory system oscillations play out with beautiful temporal and behavioral
regularity on the oscilloscope and seem to scream 'meaning'. Always there is the 
fear that, although attractive, these symbols of dynamic regularity might be just
seductive epiphenomena. There are now many studies that have isolated some of the
neural mechanisms involved in these oscillations, and recent work argues that
they are functional and even necessary at the physiological and cognitive levels.
However, much remains to be done for a full understanding of their functions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.008 
PMCID: PMC3389991
PMID: 19243843  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Mar;32(3):128-41. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.001. Epub
2009 Feb 18.

Purinergic signaling in special senses.

Housley GD(1), Bringmann A, Reichenbach A.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuroscience Facility and Department of Physiology, School of
Medical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW
2052, Australia. g.housley@unsw.edu.au

We consider the impact of purinergic signaling on the physiology of the special
senses of vision, smell, taste and hearing. Purines (particularly ATP and
adenosine) act as neurotransmitters, gliotransmitters and paracrine factors in
the sensory retina, nasal olfactory epithelium, taste buds and cochlea. The
associated purinergic receptor signaling underpins the sensory transduction and
information coding in these sense organs. The P2 and P1 receptors mediate fast
transmission of sensory signals and have modulatory roles in the regulation of
synaptic transmitter release, for example in the adaptation to sensory
overstimulation. Purinergic signaling regulates bidirectional neuron-glia
interactions and is involved in the control of blood supply, extracellular ion
homeostasis and the turnover of sensory epithelia by modulating apoptosis and
progenitor proliferation. Purinergic signaling is an important player in
pathophysiological processes in sensory tissues, and has both detrimental
(pro-apoptotic) and supportive (e.g. initiation of cytoprotective
stress-signaling cascades) effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2009.01.001 
PMID: 19232752  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Mar;32(3):178-86. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.002. Epub
2009 Jan 31.

Associative memory models: from the cell-assembly theory to biophysically
detailed cortex simulations.

Lansner A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Computational Biology, School of Computer Science and
Communication, Stockholm University and Royal Institute of Technology, 114 21
Stockholm, Sweden. ala@kth.se

The second half of the past century saw the emergence of a theory of cortical
associative memory function originating in Donald Hebb's hypotheses on
activity-dependent synaptic plasticity and cell-assembly formation and dynamics. 
This conceptual framework has today developed into a theory of attractor memory
that brings together many experimental observations from different sources and
levels of investigation into computational models displaying
information-processing capabilities such as efficient associative memory and
holistic perception. Here, we outline a development that might eventually lead to
a neurobiologically grounded theory of cortical associative memory.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.002 
PMID: 19187979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Mar;32(3):170-7. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.001. Epub 2009
Jan 27.

Nothing can be coincidence: synaptic inhibition and plasticity in the cerebellar 
nuclei.

Pugh JR(1), Raman IM.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health Science University, Portland, OR 97201, USA.

Many cerebellar neurons fire spontaneously, generating 10-100 action potentials
per second even without synaptic input. This high basal activity correlates with 
information-coding mechanisms that differ from those of cells that are quiescent 
until excited synaptically. For example, in the deep cerebellar nuclei, Hebbian
patterns of coincident synaptic excitation and postsynaptic firing fail to induce
long-term increases in the strength of excitatory inputs. Instead, excitatory
synaptic currents are potentiated by combinations of inhibition and excitation
that resemble the activity of Purkinje and mossy fiber afferents that is
predicted to occur during cerebellar associative learning tasks. Such results
indicate that circuits with intrinsically active neurons have rules for
information transfer and storage that distinguish them from other brain regions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.12.001 
PMCID: PMC2721329
PMID: 19178955  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Mar;32(3):150-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.007. Epub 2009
Jan 21.

Tau pathophysiology in neurodegeneration: a tangled issue.

Spires-Jones TL(1), Stoothoff WH, de Calignon A, Jones PB, Hyman BT.

Author information: 
(1)MassGeneral Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease, Massachusetts General
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Charlestown, MA 02129, USA.

Neurodegenerative tauopathies are marked by their common pathologic feature of
aggregates formed of hyperphosphorylated tau protein, which are associated with
synapse and neuronal loss. Changes in tau conformation result in both loss of
normal function and gain of fibrillogenicity that leads to aggregation. Here, we 
discuss the pathophysiology of tau and emerging evidence of how changes in this
protein might ultimately lead to neuronal death. In particular, based on recent
evidence, we propose that a non-apoptotic caspase-associated form of death is
occurring in tauopathy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.007 
PMID: 19162340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Mar;32(3):142-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.006. Epub 2009
Jan 21.

Axon guidance and synaptic maintenance: preclinical markers for neurodegenerative
disease and therapeutics.

Lin L(1), Lesnick TG, Maraganore DM, Isacson O.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroregeneration Laboratories, Mailman Research Center, Harvard Medical
School and McLean Hospital, 115 Mill Street, Belmont, MA 02478, USA.
llin@mclean.harvard.edu

Axon-guidance-pathway molecules are involved in connectivity and repair
throughout life (beyond guiding brain wiring during fetal development). One study
found that variations (single-nucleotide polymorphisms [SNPs]) in
axon-guidance-pathway genes were predictive of three Parkinson's disease (PD)
outcomes (susceptibility, survival free of PD and age at onset of PD) in
genome-wide association (GWA) datasets. The axon-guidance-pathway genes DCC,
EPHB1, NTNG1, SEMA5A and SLIT3 were represented by SNPs predicting PD outcomes.
Beyond GWA analyses, we also present relevant neurobiological roles of these
axon-guidance-pathway molecules and consider mechanisms by which abnormal
axon-guidance-molecule signaling can cause loss of connectivity and, ultimately, 
PD. Novel drugs and treatments could emerge from this new understanding.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.006 
PMCID: PMC2954610
PMID: 19162339  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Mar;32(3):160-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.005. Epub 2009
Jan 21.

Astrocytes and the regulation of cerebral blood flow.

Koehler RC(1), Roman RJ, Harder DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA. rkoehler@jhmi.edu

Moment-to-moment changes in local neuronal activity lead to dynamic changes in
cerebral blood flow. Emerging evidence implicates astrocytes as one of the key
players in coordinating this neurovascular coupling. Astrocytes are poised to
sense glutamatergic synaptic activity over a large spatial domain via activation 
of metabotropic glutamate receptors and subsequent calcium signaling and via
energy-dependent glutamate transport. Astrocyte foot processes can signal
vascular smooth muscle by arachidonic acid pathways involving astrocytic
cytochrome P450 epoxygenase, astrocytic cyclooxygenase-1 and smooth muscle
cytochrome P450 omega-hydroxylase activities, and by astrocytic and smooth muscle
potassium channels. Non-glutamatergic transmitters released from neurons, such as
nitric oxide, cyclooxygenase-2 metabolites and vasoactive intestinal peptide,
might modulate neurovascular signaling at the level of the astrocyte or smooth
muscle. Thus, astrocytes have a pivotal role in dynamic signaling within the
neurovascular unit. Important questions remain on how this signaling is
integrated with other pathways in health and disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.005 
PMID: 19162338  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


601. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Feb;32(2):73-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.10.004. Epub 2009 
Jan 10.

Temporal maps and informativeness in associative learning.

Balsam PD(1), Gallistel CR.

Author information: 
(1)Barnard College and Columbia University, 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027,
USA. balsam@columbia.edu <balsam@columbia.edu>

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci. 2009 Mar;32(3):127.

Neurobiological research on learning assumes that temporal contiguity is
essential for association formation, but what constitutes temporal contiguity has
never been specified. We review evidence that learning depends, instead, on
learning a temporal map. Temporal relations between events are encoded even from 
single experiences. The speed with which an anticipatory response emerges is
proportional to the informativeness of the encoded relation between a predictive 
stimulus or event and the event it predicts. This principle yields a quantitative
account of the heretofore undefined, but theoretically crucial, concept of
temporal pairing, an account in quantitative accord with surprising experimental 
findings. The same principle explains the basic results in the cue competition
literature, which motivated the Rescorla-Wagner model and most other contemporary
models of associative learning. The essential feature of a memory mechanism in
this account is its ability to encode quantitative information.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.10.004 
PMCID: PMC2727677
PMID: 19136158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Feb;32(2):110-7. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.004. Epub 2009
Jan 8.

Remote neuroimmune signaling: a long-range mechanism of nociceptive network
plasticity.

Saab CY(1), Hains BC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Rhode Island Hospital, Brown Alpert Medical School and 
Department of Neuroscience, Brown University, Providence, RI 02903, USA.
carl_saab@brown.edu

Chronic pain secondary to neuronal injury is actively and continuously modulated 
at multiple locations along the sensory neuraxis. Here, we describe how
nociceptive neurons of the spinal cord and thalamus process and communicate
nociceptive information in terms of precisely calibrated firing patterns. We then
discuss how several cell types with immunogenic properties (e.g. blood cells and 
glia) cause system-wide interference in nociceptive processing through novel
signaling schema, thus contributing to nociceptive network plasticity and chronic
pain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.004 
PMID: 19135730  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Feb;32(2):88-100. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.10.003. Epub
2009 Jan 8.

Deciphering complex mechanisms in neurodegenerative diseases: the advent of
systems biology.

Noorbakhsh F(1), Overall CM, Power C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, 6-11 Heritage Medical Research Centre, 87 Avenue,
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, T6G2S2, Canada.

Classical biological methods involving analyses of one or several genes have been
the mainstay for studying the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders.
However, it has become clear that these diseases exhibit complex molecular
interactions involving both host genomes and environmental determinants. Systems 
biology represents an integrated and deeper investigation of interacting
biomolecules within cells or organisms. This approach has only recently become
feasible as high-throughput technologies including cDNA microarrays, mass
spectrometric analyses of proteins and lipids together with rigorous
bioinformatics have evolved. Herein, we review recent developments from studies
of systems biology applied to multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and
HIV-associated dementia as three prototypic neurodegenerative disorders. Existing
high-content data derived from clinically and experimentally derived neural
tissues point to convergent pathways among these neurodegenerative disorders,
which transcend descriptive studies to reach a more integrated understanding of
disease pathogenesis and, in some instances, highlighting 'druggable' network
nodes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.10.003 
PMID: 19135729  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Feb;32(2):79-87. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.003. Epub 2009
Jan 8.

Purinergic signalling in inflammation of the central nervous system.

Di Virgilio F(1), Ceruti S, Bramanti P, Abbracchio MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental and Diagnostic Medicine, Section of General
Pathology, Interdisciplinary Center for the Study of Inflammation, University of 
Ferrara, 44100 Ferrara, Italy. fdv@unife.it

Inflammation is the most fundamental body reaction to noxious stimuli. No
vascularized tissue, organ or apparatus is free from this response. Several
mediators of inflammation, originating from outside (exogenous) or inside
(endogenous) the body, are known. Among the endogenous factors, extracellular
nucleotides and nucleosides are attracting interest for their ubiquity and
striking ability to modulate diverse immune responses. Until recently, it was
doubted that the central nervous system (CNS), reportedly an 'immunoprivileged
organ', could be the site of immune reactions. Nowadays, it is acknowledged that 
inflammation and immunity have a key role in a vast range of CNS diseases.
Likewise, it is clear that purinergic signalling profoundly affects
neuroinflammation. Here, we provide a brief update of the state of the art in
this expanding field.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.003 
PMID: 19135728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Feb;32(2):69-72. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.002. Epub 2009
Jan 8.

Contact in the genetics of autism and schizophrenia.

Burbach JP(1), van der Zwaag B.

Author information: 
(1)Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, Department of Neuroscience and
Pharmacology, University Medical Center Utrecht, P.O. Box 85060, 3508 AB Utrecht,
The Netherlands. j.p.h.burbach@umcutrecht.nl <j.p.h.burbach@umcutrecht.nl>

Although autism and schizophrenia are considered to be distinct neuropsychiatric 
developmental disorders, recent studies indicate that they share genetic factors.
The same chromosomal rearrangements and several single genes have emerged as
genetic risks in both disorders. One such gene is contactin-associated protein-2 
(CNTNAP2). These findings raise the possibility that these neuropsychiatric
disorders share pathogenic mechanisms and that similar defects in biological
pathways of brain development might underlie the phenotypic spectrum of these
disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.002 
PMID: 19135727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Feb;32(2):118-26. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.001. Epub
2008 Dec 26.

A brief history of human brain mapping.

Raichle ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, 4525 Scott Avenue, St Louis, MO
63110, USA. marc@npg.wustl.edu

Human functional brain mapping as we presently know it began when the
experimental strategies of cognitive psychology were combined with modern
brain-imaging techniques (first positron emission tomography and then functional 
magnetic resonance imaging) to examine how brain function supports mental
activities. This marriage of disciplines and techniques galvanized the field of
cognitive neuroscience, which has rapidly expanded to include a broad range of
the social sciences in addition to basic scientists interested in the
neurophysiology, cell biology and genetics of the imaging signals. Although much 
of this work has transpired over the past couple of decades, its roots can be
traced back more than a century.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.11.001 
PMID: 19110322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Feb;32(2):101-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.10.002. Epub 2008
Dec 13.

Orthogonal coding of object location.

Knutsen PM(1), Ahissar E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute for Science, Rehovot 76100,
Israel.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci. 2009 Apr;32(4):187-8.

It has been argued whether internal representations are encoded using a universal
('the neural code') or multiple codes. Here, we review a series of experiments
that demonstrate that tactile encoding of object location via whisking employs an
orthogonal, triple-code scheme. Rats, and other rodents, actively move the
whiskers back and forth to localize and identify objects. Neural recordings from 
primary sensory afferents, along with behavioral observations, demonstrate that
vertical coordinates of contacted objects are encoded by the identity of
activated afferents, horizontal coordinates by the timing of activation and
radial coordinates by the intensity of activation. Because these codes are
mutually independent, the three-dimensional location of an object could, in
principle, be encoded by individual afferents during single whisker-object
contacts. One advantage of such a same-neuron-different-codes scheme over the
traditionally assumed same-code-different-neurons scheme is a reduction of code
ambiguity that, in turn, simplifies decoding circuits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.10.002 
PMID: 19070909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jan;32(1):9-18. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.012. Epub 2008 
Nov 13.

Low-frequency neuronal oscillations as instruments of sensory selection.

Schroeder CE(1), Lakatos P.

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience and Schizophrenia Program, Nathan Kline Institute for
Psychiatric Research, 140 Old Orangeburg Road, Orangeburg, NY 10962, USA.
schrod@nki.rfmh.org

Neuroelectric oscillations reflect rhythmic shifting of neuronal ensembles
between high and low excitability states. In natural settings, important stimuli 
often occur in rhythmic streams, and when oscillations entrain to an input rhythm
their high excitability phases coincide with events in the stream, effectively
amplifying neuronal input responses. When operating in a 'rhythmic mode',
attention can use these differential excitability states as a mechanism of
selection by simply enforcing oscillatory entrainment to a task-relevant input
stream. When there is no low-frequency rhythm that oscillations can entrain to,
attention operates in a 'continuous mode', characterized by extended increase in 
gamma synchrony. We review the evidence for early sensory selection by
oscillatory phase-amplitude modulations, its mechanisms and its perceptual and
behavioral consequences.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.012 
PMCID: PMC2990947
PMID: 19012975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jan;32(1):19-29. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.10.001. Epub 2008
Nov 12.

Purinergic signalling in the nervous system: an overview.

Abbracchio MP(1), Burnstock G, Verkhratsky A, Zimmermann H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacological Sciences, Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular
Pharmacology of Purinergic Transmission, via Balzaretti 9, University of Milan,
20133-Milan, Italy.

Purinergic receptors, represented by several families, are arguably the most
abundant receptors in living organisms and appeared early in evolution. After
slow acceptance, purinergic signalling in both peripheral and central nervous
systems is a rapidly expanding field. Here, we emphasize purinergic
co-transmission, mechanisms of release and breakdown of ATP, ion channel and
G-protein-coupled-receptor subtypes for purines and pyrimidines, the role of
purines and pyrimidines in neuron-glial communication and interactions of this
system with other transmitter systems. We also highlight recent data involving
purinergic signalling in pathological conditions, including pain, trauma,
ischaemia, epilepsy, migraine, psychiatric disorders and drug addiction, which we
expect will lead to the development of therapeutic strategies for these disorders
with novel mechanisms of action.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.10.001 
PMID: 19008000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jan;32(1):2-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.010. Epub 2008
Nov 3.

The dopaminergic hypothesis of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder needs
re-examining.

Gonon F(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Bordeaux, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique UMR 5227,
146 rue Leo Saignat, Bordeaux, F-33076, France. francois.gonon@u-bordeaux2.fr

Although psychostimulants alleviate the core symptoms of
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), recent studies confirm that
their impact on the long-term outcomes of ADHD children is null. Psychostimulants
enhance extracellular dopamine. Numerous review articles assert that they correct
an underlying dopaminergic deficit of genetic origin. This dopamine-deficit
theory of ADHD is often based upon an overly simplistic dopaminergic theory of
reward. Here, I question the relevance of this theory regarding ADHD. I underline
the weaknesses of the neurochemical, genetic, neuropharmacological and imaging
data put forward to support the dopamine-deficit hypothesis of ADHD. Therefore,
this hypothesis should not be put forward to bias ADHD management towards
psychostimulants.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.010 
PMID: 18986716  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jan;32(1):56-67. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.009. Epub 2008
Nov 3.

The hidden island of addiction: the insula.

Naqvi NH(1), Bechara A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University and New York State Psychiatric
Institute, New York, NY 1032, USA.

Most prior research on the neurobiology of addiction has focused on the role of
subcortical systems, such as the amygdala, the ventral striatum and mesolimbic
dopamine system, in promoting the motivation to seek drugs. Recent evidence
indicates that a largely overlooked structure, the insula, plays a crucial part
in conscious urges to take drugs. The insula has been highlighted as a region
that integrates interoceptive (i.e. bodily) states into conscious feelings and
into decision-making processes that involve uncertain risk and reward. Here, we
propose a model in which the processing of the interoceptive effects of drug use 
by the insula contributes to conscious drug urges and to decision-making
processes that precipitate relapse.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.009 
PMCID: PMC3698860
PMID: 18986715  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jan;32(1):41-7. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.008. Epub 2008 
Oct 30.

Spinal cord injury: plasticity, regeneration and the challenge of translational
drug development.

Blesch A(1), Tuszynski MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences-0626, University of California, San Diego, La
Jolla, CA 92093, USA.

Over the past three decades, multiple mechanisms limiting central nervous system 
regeneration have been identified. Here, we address plasticity arising from
spared systems as a particularly important and often unrecognized mechanism that 
potentially contributes to functional recovery in studies of 'regeneration' after
spinal cord injury. We then discuss complexities involved in translating findings
from animal models to human clinical trials in spinal cord injury; current
strategies might be too limited in scope to yield detectable benefits in the
complex and variable arena of human injury. Our animal models are imperfect, and 
the very variability that we attempt to control in the course of conducting
rigorous research might, ironically, limit our ability to identify the most
promising therapies in the human arena. Therapeutic candidates are most likely to
have a detectable effect in human trials if they elicit benefits in severe
contusion and larger animal models and pass the test of independent replication.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.008 
PMID: 18977039  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jan;32(1):30-40. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.007. Epub 2008
Oct 30.

Timing and plasticity in the cerebellum: focus on the granular layer.

D'Angelo E(1), De Zeeuw CI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiological and Pharmacological
Sciences, University of Pavia and CNISM, Via Forlanini 6, I-27100 Pavia, Italy.
dangelo@unipv.it

Two of the most striking properties of the cerebellum are its control in timing
of motor operations and its ability to adapt behavior to new sensorimotor
associations. Here, we propose a 'time-window matching' hypothesis for granular
layer processing. Our hypothesis states that mossy fiber inputs to the granular
layer are transformed into well-timed spike bursts by intrinsic granule cell
processing, that feedforward Golgi cell inhibition sets a limit to the duration
of such bursts and that these activities are spread over particular fields in the
granular layer so as to generate ongoing time-windows for proper control of
interacting motor domains. The role of synaptic plasticity would be that of
fine-tuning pre-wired circuits favoring activation of specific granule cell
groups in relation to particular time windows. This concept has wide implications
for processing in the olivo-cerebellar system as a whole.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.007 
PMID: 18977038  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Trends Neurosci. 2009 Jan;32(1):48-55. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.006. Epub 2008
Oct 27.

Tissue-type plasminogen activator in the ischemic brain: more than a
thrombolytic.

Yepes M(1), Roussel BD, Ali C, Vivien D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Center for Neurodegenerative Disease, Emory
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

Thrombolysis with tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) is used for the
treatment of patients with acute ischemic stroke. However, a growing body of
evidence indicates that, besides the unquestionable benefit from its thrombolytic
activity, tPA also has a deleterious effect on the ischemic brain including
cytotoxicity and increased permeability of the neurovascular unit with the
development of cerebral edema. Because an increasing number of acute stroke
patients are treated with tPA, it is important to know the mechanisms of harmful 
effects of tPA on the ischemic brain. Here, the best studied pathways of tPA
neurotoxicity are discussed along with future directions for a safer use of tPA
as a thrombolytic agent in the setting of acute ischemic stroke.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.006 
PMID: 18963068  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Dec;31(12):645-52. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.001. Epub
2008 Oct 24.

Genetic epidemiology: the use of old and new tools for multiple sclerosis.

Ramagopalan SV(1), Dyment DA, Ebers GC.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics and Department of Clinical Neurology,
University of Oxford, Roosevelt Drive, Headington, Oxford, OX3 7BN, UK.

We review the practical application of the tools for studying the genetic
epidemiology of complex disease. Whole-genome association studies highlight the
need to understand the genetic epidemiology. Elucidating the genetic basis of
disease anticipated from these studies has been incomplete, and the importance of
the environment and its potential interaction with genes cannot be overlooked.
Multiple sclerosis yields several key lessons including how epistatic effects
might overshadow the small effects of genes identified from whole-genome
association studies. We reinterpret twin studies and demonstrate the use and
advantages of adoptee, half-sibling and avuncular-pair studies. These show that
the environment acts at a population level, strongly indicating epigenetic
modifications to germline susceptibility. There is good reason to think that such
interactions will be within the major histocompatibility complex, in which strong
epistatic effects have already been demonstrated. Family-based data in multiple
sclerosis are applicable to other neurological traits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.001 
PMID: 18952304  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Dec;31(12):617-25. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.005. Epub
2008 Oct 25.

A model of the olivo-cerebellar system as a temporal pattern generator.

Jacobson GA(1), Rokni D, Yarom Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Life Science Institute and the Interdisciplinary
Centre for Neural Computation, Hebrew University, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.

The olivo-cerebellar system has been implicated in temporal coordination of task 
components. Here, we propose a novel model that enables the olivo-cerebellar
system to function as a generator of temporal patterns. These patterns could be
used for timing of motor, sensory and cognitive tasks. The proposed mechanism for
the generation of these patterns is based on subthreshold oscillations in a
network of inferior olivary neurons and their control by the cerebellar cortex
and nuclei. Our model, which integrates a large body of anatomical and
physiological observations, lends itself to simple, testable predictions and
provides a new conceptual framework for olivo-cerebellar research.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.005 
PMID: 18952303  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Dec;31(12):609-16. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.004. Epub
2008 Oct 24.

Mutant huntingtin and mitochondrial dysfunction.

Bossy-Wetzel E(1), Petrilli A, Knott AB.

Author information: 
(1)University of Central Florida, Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences, College 
of Medicine, 4000 Central Florida Boulevard, Orlando, FL 32816, USA.
ebossywe@mail.ucf.edu

Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal, inherited neurodegenerative disorder that
gradually robs affected individuals of memory, cognitive skills and normal
movements. Although research has identified a single faulty gene, the huntingtin 
gene, as the cause of the disease, a cure remains elusive. Strong evidence
indicates that mitochondrial impairment plays a key part in HD pathogenesis.
Here, we highlight how mutant huntingtin (mtHtt) might cause mitochondrial
dysfunction by either perturbing transcription of nuclear-encoded mitochondrial
proteins or by direct interaction with the organelle and modulation of
respiration, mitochondrial membrane potential and Ca(2+) buffering. In addition, 
we propose that mtHtt might convey its neurotoxicity by evoking defects in
mitochondrial dynamics, organelle trafficking and fission and fusion, which, in
turn, might result in bioenergetic failure and HD-linked neuronal dysfunction and
cell death. Finally, we speculate how mitochondria might dictate selective
vulnerability of long projection neurons, such as medium spiny neurons, which are
particularly affected in HD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.004 
PMCID: PMC2613540
PMID: 18951640  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Dec;31(12):626-36. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.002. Epub
2008 Oct 24.

Neuro-archaeology: pre-symptomatic architecture and signature of neurological
disorders.

Ben-Ari Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurobiology of the Mediterranean Sea (INMED), Institut national 
de la santé et de la recherche médicale (INSERM), Campus Scientifique de Luminy, 
Route de Luminy, Marseille 13263 Cedex, France. ben-ari@inmed.univ-mrs.fr

During brain development cells divide, differentiate and migrate to their
assigned targets to form synapses and active cell assemblies. This sequence is
controlled both by genetic programs and environmental factors. Alterations of
this sequence by mutations or environmental insults leads to the formation of
misconnected circuits endowed with a 'pre-symptomatic signature'. I propose here 
that early- and late-onset neurological disorders as diverse as infantile
epilepsies, mental retardation, dyslexia or, in certain conditions, even
Huntington's and Alzheimer's disease might be, in part, born at early
developmental stages before symptoms appear. The core of this working hypothesis 
is that imaging or non-invasive recordings might unravel signatures of disorders 
to come, thereby permitting earlier diagnosis and potential treatment of
neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.002 
PMID: 18951639  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Dec;31(12):653-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.003. Epub
2008 Oct 20.

Neuroglia: the 150 years after.

Kettenmann H(1), Verkhratsky A.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Strasse 10, 13122
Berlin-Buch, Germany.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.09.003 
PMID: 18945498  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Dec;31(12):637-44. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.010. Epub
2008 Oct 8.

Genetic basis of human brain evolution.

Vallender EJ(1), Mekel-Bobrov N, Lahn BT.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurochemistry, New England Primate Research Center, Harvard
Medical School, Southborough, MA 01772, USA. eric_vallender@hms.harvard.edu

Human evolution is characterized by a rapid increase in brain size and
complexity. Decades of research have made important strides in identifying
anatomical and physiological substrates underlying the unique features of the
human brain. By contrast, it has become possible only very recently to examine
the genetic basis of human brain evolution. Through comparative genomics,
tantalizing insights regarding human brain evolution have emerged. The genetic
changes that potentially underlie human brain evolution span a wide range from
single-nucleotide substitutions to large-scale structural alterations of the
genome. Similarly, the functional consequences of these genetic changes vary
greatly, including protein-sequence alterations, cis-regulatory changes and even 
the emergence of new genes and the extinction of existing ones. Here, we provide 
a general review of recent findings into the genetic basis of human brain
evolution, highlight the most notable trends that have emerged and caution
against over-interpretation of current data.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.010 
PMCID: PMC2715140
PMID: 18848363  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Dec;31(12):599-608. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.008. Epub
2008 Oct 4.

Forward frontal fields: phylogeny and fundamental function.

Wise SP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section on Neurophysiology, Laboratory of Systems Neuroscience, National
Institute of Mental Health, 49 Convent Drive, MSC 4401, Bethesda, MD 20892-4401, 
USA. stevenwise@mail.nih.gov

The largest part of the primate prefrontal cortex has no homolog in other
mammals. Accordingly, it probably confers some advantage that other mammals
either lack or attain through the function of other structures. Yet, this
advantage remains enigmatic. This is not so for other parts of the cortex. For
example, certain visual areas encode, represent and store knowledge about
objects. By analogy, perhaps the primate prefrontal cortex encodes, represents
and stores knowledge about behaviors, including the consequences of doing (or not
doing) something in complex and challenging situations. The long list of
functions often attributed to the prefrontal cortex could contribute to knowing
what to do and what will happen when rare risks arise or outstanding
opportunities knock.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.008 
PMCID: PMC2587508
PMID: 18835649  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Nov;31(11):585-90. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.009. Epub
2008 Oct 8.

Galileo Galilei's vision of the senses.

Piccolino M(1), Wade NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Evolution, University of Ferrara, Via Borsari 46,
44100, Ferrara, Italy. pic@dns.unife.it

Neuroscientists have become increasingly aware of the complexities and subtleties
of sensory processing. This applies particularly to the complex elaborations of
nerve signals that occur in the sensory circuits, sometimes at the very initial
stages of sensory pathways. Sensory processing is now known to be very different 
from a simple neural copy of the physical signal present in the external world,
and this accounts for the intricacy of neural organization that puzzled great
investigators of neuroanatomy such as Santiago Ramón Y Cajal a century ago. It
will surprise present-day sensory neuroscientists, applying their many modern
methods, that the conceptual basis of the contemporary approach to sensory
function had been recognized four centuries ago by Galileo Galilei.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.009 
PMID: 18848364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Nov;31(11):591-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.007. Epub
2008 Sep 25.

The role of fluctuations in perception.

Deco G(1), Romo R.

Author information: 
(1)Instituciò Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats, Universitat Pompeu Fabra,
Department of Technology, Computational Neuroscience, Passeig de Circumval.laciò,
8, 08003 Barcelona, Spain. gustavo.deco@upf.edu

Noise contributed by the probabilistic spiking times of neurons has an important 
and advantageous role in brain function. We go beyond the deterministic noiseless
description of the dynamics of cortical networks and show how the properties of
the system are influenced by the spiking noise. We review here recent results
that show the direct link between brain activity and psychophysically quantified 
behaviors during a somatosensory detection task. We focus on the following
remarkable observation in this somatosensory task: when a near-threshold stimulus
is presented, a sensory percept may or may not be produced. These perceptual
judgments are believed to be determined by the fluctuation in activity of early
sensory cortices. We show, however, that the behavioral outcomes associated with 
near-threshold stimuli depend on the neuronal fluctuations of more central areas 
to early somatosensory cortices. Furthermore, we show that the behavioral
correlate of perceptual detection is given by a noise-driven transition in a
multistable neurodynamical system. Thus, neuronal fluctuations can be an
advantage for brain processing because they lead to probabilistic behavior in
decision making in this and other sensory tasks.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.007 
PMID: 18823666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Nov;31(11):577-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.006. Epub
2008 Sep 23.

Micro-rewiring as a substrate for learning.

DeBello WM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience, Department of Neurobiology, Physiology and Behavior, 
University of California, Davis, 1544 Newton Court, Davis, CA 95618, USA.
wmdebello@ucdavis.edu

How does the brain encode life experiences? Recent results derived from vital
imaging, computational modeling, cellular physiology and systems neuroscience
have pointed to local changes in synaptic connectivity as a powerful substrate,
here termed micro-rewiring. To examine this hypothesis, I first review findings
on micro-structural dynamics with focus on the extension and retraction of
dendritic spines. Although these observations demonstrate a biological mechanism,
they do not inform us of the specific changes in circuit configuration that might
occur during learning. Here, computational models have made testable predictions 
for both the neuronal and circuit levels. Integrative approaches in the mammalian
neocortex and the barn owl auditory localization pathway provide some of the
first direct evidence in support of these 'synaptic-clustering' mechanisms. The
implications of these data and the challenges for future research are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.006 
PMCID: PMC2581897
PMID: 18817991  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Nov;31(11):559-68. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.005. Epub
2008 Sep 24.

Synaptic vesicle endocytosis: fast and slow modes of membrane retrieval.

Smith SM(1), Renden R, von Gersdorff H.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Oregon Health and Science
University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Road, Portland, OR 97239-3098, USA.

Several modes of synaptic vesicle release, retrieval and recycling have been
identified. In a well-established mode of exocytosis, termed 'full-collapse
fusion', vesicles empty their neurotransmitter content fully into the synaptic
cleft by flattening out and becoming part of the presynaptic membrane. The fused 
vesicle membrane is then reinternalized via a slow and clathrin-dependent mode of
compensatory endocytosis that takes several seconds. A more fleeting mode of
vesicle fusion, termed 'kiss-and-run' exocytosis or 'flicker-fusion', indicates
that during synaptic transmission some vesicles are only briefly connected to the
presynaptic membrane by a transient fusion pore. Finally, a mode that retrieves a
large amount of membrane, equivalent to that of several fused vesicles, termed
'bulk endocytosis', has been found after prolonged exocytosis. We are of the
opinion that both fast and slow modes of endocytosis co-exist at central nervous 
system nerve terminals and that one mode can predominate depending on stimulus
strength, temperature and synaptic maturation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.005 
PMCID: PMC3626563
PMID: 18817990  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Nov;31(11):549-50; author reply 550-1. doi:
10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.004. Epub 2008 Sep 16.

Synaesthesia and cortical connections: cause or correlation?

Cohen Kadosh R, Walsh V.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jul;31(7):335-42.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.004 
PMID: 18801583  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Nov;31(11):552-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.002. Epub
2008 Sep 9.

Limbic and cortical information processing in the nucleus accumbens.

Goto Y(1), Grace AA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, H3A 1A1,
Canada. yukiori.goto@mcgill.ca

The nucleus accumbens regulates goal-directed behaviors by integrating
information from limbic structures and the prefrontal cortex. Here, we review
recent studies in an attempt to provide an integrated view of the control of
information processing in the nucleus accumbens in terms of the regulation of
goal-directed behaviors and how disruption of these functions might underlie the 
pathological states in drug addiction and other psychiatric disorders. We propose
a model that could account for the results of several studies investigating
limbic-system interactions in the nucleus accumbens and their modulation by
dopamine and provide testable hypotheses for how these might relate to the
pathophysiology of major psychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.002 
PMCID: PMC2884964
PMID: 18786735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Nov;31(11):569-76. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.001. Epub
2008 Sep 4.

The subunit arrangement and assembly of ionotropic receptors.

Barrera NP(1), Edwardson JM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge
CB2 1EW, UK.

Ionotropic receptors mediate rapid communication between neurons. These receptors
are oligomers and are usually assembled from multiple subunit types. Receptors
built from different subunit combinations have distinct functional properties,
such as single-channel conductances, rates of desensitization and sensitivities
to activators and inactivators; they can also have different intracellular
locations. Methods are now available for determining not only the subunit
stoichiometry but also the subunit arrangement within ionotropic receptors. This 
information will inform experiments designed to understand the molecular basis of
receptor assembly and function. It will also permit the modelling of potential
ligand-binding sites at the interfaces between the subunits and should lead to a 
more rational approach to drug development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.001 
PMID: 18774187  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Oct;31(10):521-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.004. Epub
2008 Sep 6.

Polyglutamine neurodegeneration: protein misfolding revisited.

Williams AJ(1), Paulson HL.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Neuroscience and Medical Scientist Training Program, University of 
Iowa, 2206 MERF, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA.

Polyglutamine diseases are a major cause of neurodegeneration worldwide. Recent
studies highlight the importance of protein quality control mechanisms in
regulating polyglutamine-induced toxicity. Here we discuss a model of disease
pathogenesis that integrates current understanding of the role of protein folding
in polyglutamine disease with emerging evidence that alterations in native
protein interactions contribute to toxicity. We also incorporate new findings on 
other age-related neurodegenerative diseases in an effort to explain how protein 
aggregation and normal aging processes might be involved in polyglutamine disease
pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.004 
PMCID: PMC2580745
PMID: 18778858  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Oct;31(10):538-47. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.002. Epub
2008 Sep 3.

Respiratory neuroplasticity and cervical spinal cord injury: translational
perspectives.

Lane MA(1), Fuller DD, White TE, Reier PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Florida College of Medicine and
McKnight Brain Institute, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA. michael.lane@mbi.ufl.edu

Paralysis of the diaphragm is a severe consequence of cervical spinal cord
injury. This condition can be experimentally modeled by lateralized, high
cervical lesions that interrupt descending inspiratory drive to the corresponding
phrenic nucleus. Although partial recovery of ipsilateral diaphragm function
occurs over time, recent findings show persisting chronic deficits in ventilation
and phrenic motoneuron activity. Some evidence suggests, however, that
spontaneous recovery can be enhanced by modulating neural pathways to phrenic
motoneurons via synaptic circuitries which appear more complex than previously
envisioned. The present review highlights these and other recent experimental
multidisciplinary findings pertaining to respiratory neuroplasticity in the rat. 
Translational considerations are also emphasized, with specific attention
directed at the clinical and interpretational strengths of different lesion
models and outcome measures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.002 
PMCID: PMC2577878
PMID: 18775573  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Oct;31(10):512-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.006. Epub
2008 Sep 3.

Cracking neural circuits in a tiny brain: new approaches for understanding the
neural circuitry of Drosophila.

Olsen SR(1), Wilson RI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Genetic screens in Drosophila have identified many genes involved in neural
development and function. However, until recently, it has been impossible to
monitor neural signals in Drosophila central neurons, and it has been difficult
to make specific perturbations to central neural circuits. This has changed in
the past few years with the development of new tools for measuring and
manipulating neural activity in the fly. Here we review how these new tools
enable novel conceptual approaches to 'cracking circuits' in this important model
organism. We discuss recent studies aimed at defining the cognitive demands on
the fly brain, identifying the cellular components of specific neural circuits,
mapping functional connectivity in those circuits and defining causal
relationships between neural activity and behavior.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.006 
PMCID: PMC2845908
PMID: 18775572  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Oct;31(10):529-37. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.003. Epub
2008 Sep 4.

The healthy cell bias of estrogen action: mitochondrial bioenergetics and
neurological implications.

Brinton RD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Southern
California, School of Pharmacy Pharmaceutical Sciences Center, Los Angeles, CA
90033, USA. rbrinton@usc.edu

The 'healthy cell bias of estrogen action' hypothesis examines the role that
regulating mitochondrial function and bioenergetics play in promoting neural
health and the mechanistic crossroads that lead to divergent outcomes following
estrogen exposure. Estrogen-induced signaling pathways in hippocampal and
cortical neurons converge upon the mitochondria to enhance aerobic glycolysis
coupled to the citric acid cycle, mitochondrial respiration and ATP generation.
Convergence of estrogen-induced signaling onto mitochondria is also a point of
vulnerability when activated in diseased neurons which exacerbates degeneration
through increased load on dysregulated calcium homeostasis. As the continuum of
neurological health progresses from healthy to unhealthy so too do the benefits
of estrogen or hormone therapy. The healthy cell bias of estrogen action
hypothesis provides a lens through which to assess disparities in outcomes across
basic and clinical science and on which to predict outcomes of estrogen
interventions for sustaining neurological health and preventing age-associated
neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.003 
PMID: 18774188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Oct;31(10):504-11. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.005. Epub
2008 Sep 4.

Targeting TNF-alpha receptors for neurotherapeutics.

Chadwick W(1), Magnus T, Martin B, Keselman A, Mattson MP, Maudsley S.

Author information: 
(1)Receptor Pharmacology Unit, Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on
Aging, Biomedical Research Center, 251 Bayview Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21224,
USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.005 
PMCID: PMC2574933
PMID: 18774186  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Oct;31(10):495-503. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.007. Epub
2008 Sep 4.

Molecular neurobiology of bipolar disorder: a disease of 'mood-stabilizing
neurons'?

Kato T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Dynamics of Mental Disorders, Brain Science
Institute, RIKEN, Wako, Saitama 351-0198, Japan. kato@brain.riken.jp

Although the role of a genetic factor is established in bipolar disorder,
causative genes or robust genetic risk factors have not been identified.
Increased incidence of subcortical hyperintensity, altered calcium levels in
cells derived from patients and neuroprotective effects of mood stabilizers
suggest vulnerability or impaired resilience of neurons in bipolar disorder.
Mitochondrial dysfunction or impaired endoplasmic reticulum stress response is
suggested to play a role in the neurons' vulnerability. Progressive loss or
dysfunction of 'mood-stabilizing neurons' might account for the characteristic
course of the illness. The important next step in the neurobiological study of
bipolar disorder is identification of the neural systems that are responsible for
this disorder.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.007 
PMID: 18774185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Sep;31(9):469-77. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.008. Epub
2008 Aug 5.

Understanding memory through hippocampal remapping.

Colgin LL(1), Moser EI, Moser MB.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Systems Neuroscience and Centre for the Biology of Memory,
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 7489 Trondheim, Norway.
laura.colgin@cbm.ntnu.no

Memory interference is a common cause of forgetting. Interference is a byproduct 
of the need to balance the formation of well-differentiated representations
against the ability to retrieve memories from cues that are not identical to the 
original experience. How the brain accomplishes this has remained elusive. Here
we review how insights can be gained from studies of an apparently unrelated
phenomenon in the rodent brain--remapping in hippocampal place cells. Remapping
refers to the formation of distinct representations in populations of place cells
after minor changes in inputs to the hippocampus. Remapping might reflect
processes involved generally in decorrelation of overlapping signals. These
processes might be crucial for storing large numbers of similar experiences with 
only minimal interference.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.008 
PMID: 18687478  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Sep;31(9):487-94. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.001. Epub
2008 Aug 4.

Cadherins and catenins at synapses: roles in synaptogenesis and synaptic
plasticity.

Arikkath J(1), Reichardt LF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of California San Francisco, Rock Hall,
Room 284A, Mission Bay, 1550 Fourth Street, San Francisco, CA 94158-2611, USA.

Synapse formation involves reciprocal interactions between cells resulting in
formation of a structure optimized for efficient information transfer. Recent
work has implicated constituents of the cadherin-catenin cell-adhesion complex in
both synapse formation and plasticity. In this review, we describe recent
interesting discoveries on mechanisms of cadherin complex function, in addition
to regulating adhesion, that are relevant for understanding the role of this
complex in synaptogenesis and plasticity. We describe how this complex acts via
(i) recruitment/stabilization of intracellular partners; (ii) regulation of
intracellular signaling pathways; (iii) regulation of cadherin surface levels,
stability and turnover; (iv) stabilization of receptors; and (v) regulation of
gene expression. These exciting discoveries provide insights into novel
functional roles of the complex beyond regulating cell adhesion.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.07.001 
PMCID: PMC2623250
PMID: 18684518  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Sep;31(9):444-53. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.004. Epub
2008 Aug 3.

fMRI and its interpretations: an illustration on directional selectivity in area 
V5/MT.

Bartels A(1), Logothetis NK, Moutoussis K.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics, 72076 Tübingen, Germany.
andreas.bartels@tuebingen.mpg.de

fMRI is a tool to study brain function noninvasively that can reliably identify
sites of neural involvement for a given task. However, to what extent can fMRI
signals be related to measures obtained in electrophysiology? Can the
blood-oxygen-level-dependent signal be interpreted as spatially pooled spiking
activity? Here we combine knowledge from neurovascular coupling, functional
imaging and neurophysiology to discuss whether fMRI has succeeded in
demonstrating one of the most established functional properties in the visual
brain, namely directional selectivity in the motion-processing region V5/MT+. We 
also discuss differences of fMRI and electrophysiology in their sensitivity to
distinct physiological processes. We conclude that fMRI constitutes a complement,
not a poor-resolution substitute, to invasive techniques, and that it deserves
interpretations that acknowledge its stand as a separate signal.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.004 
PMID: 18676033  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Sep;31(9):478-86. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.007. Epub
2008 Aug 3.

Death receptor Fas (CD95) signaling in the central nervous system: tuning
neuroplasticity?

Reich A(1), Spering C, Schulz JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurodegeneration and Restorative Research, Center for Molecular
Physiology of the Brain, University of Göttingen, D-37073 Göttingen, Germany.

For over a decade, neuroscientific research has focused on processes of apoptosis
and its contribution to the pathophysiology of neurological diseases. In the
central nervous system, the degree of intrinsic mitochondrial-mediated apoptotic 
signaling expresses a cell's individual metabolic stress, whereas activation of
the extrinsic death receptor-induced cascade is regarded as a sign of imbalanced 
cellular networks. Under physiological conditions, most neurons possess death
receptors without being sensitive to receptor-mediated apoptosis. This paradox
raises two questions: what is the evolutionary advantage of expressing
potentially harmful proteins? How is their signaling controlled? This review
summarizes the functional relevance of FasL-Fas signaling--a quintessential death
ligand/receptor system--in different neurological disease models ranging from
traumatic, inflammatory and ischemic to neurodegenerative processes. Furthermore,
it outlines alternative non-apoptotic Fas signaling, shedding new light on its
neuroplastic capacity. Finally, receptor-proximal regulatory proteins are
introduced and identified as potential protagonists of disease-modifying
neurological therapies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.007 
PMID: 18676032  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Sep;31(9):464-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.006. Epub 2008
Jul 31.

The HPA axis in major depression: classical theories and new developments.

Pariante CM(1), Lightman SL.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, Division of Psychological
Medicine and Psychiatry, Centre for the Cellular Basis of Behaviour, London, UK.

Studies over the last 40 years have demonstrated that hyperactivity of the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis is one of the most consistent biological
findings in major depression psychiatry, but the mechanisms underlying this
abnormality are still unclear.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.006 
PMID: 18675469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Sep;31(9):454-63. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.005. Epub
2008 Jul 31.

Neuronal calcium mishandling and the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.

Bezprozvanny I(1), Mattson MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, TX 75390, USA. ilya.bezprozvanny@utsouthwestern.edu

Perturbed neuronal Ca(2+) homeostasis is implicated in age-related cognitive
impairment and Alzheimer's disease (AD). With advancing age, neurons encounter
increased oxidative stress and impaired energy metabolism, which compromise the
function of proteins that control membrane excitability and subcellular Ca(2+)
dynamics. Toxic forms of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) can induce Ca(2+) influx
into neurons by inducing membrane-associated oxidative stress or by forming an
oligomeric pore in the membrane, thereby rendering neurons vulnerable to
excitotoxicity and apoptosis. AD-causing mutations in the beta-amyloid precursor 
protein and presenilins can compromise these normal proteins in the plasma
membrane and endoplasmic reticulum, respectively. Emerging knowledge of the
actions of Ca(2+) upstream and downstream of Abeta provides opportunities to
develop novel preventative and therapeutic interventions for AD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.005 
PMCID: PMC2566585
PMID: 18675468  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Sep;31(9):435-43. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.003. Epub
2008 Jul 31.

Molecular form follows function: (un)snaring the SNAREs.

Parpura V(1), Mohideen U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Civitan International Research Center, Evelyn F.
McKnight Brain Institute, Atomic Force Microscopy and Nanotechnology
Laboratories, University of Alabama, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA. vlad@uab.edu

Exocytotic release of transmitters is mediated by the ternary SNARE complex. The 
form of this complex is consistent with its function in the positioning of
vesicles to the plasma membrane and their fusion to it. Recent advances in
single-molecule techniques, however, bring an additional layer of complexity to
this process, implicating that there might be various modes of operation. For
example, the binary syntaxin-synaptobrevin 2 complex, in addition to the ternary 
complex containing SNAP25, might enable vesicular docking. Single-molecule
techniques allow direct measurements of the distance/extension, rupture force,
spontaneous dissociation times and interaction energy for SNARE protein-protein
interactions. These measurements are complementary to results and conclusions
drawn from other techniques. Consequently, single-molecule techniques promise
tremendous opportunities for in vitro investigations of SNARE proteins to improve
our understanding of their role in exocytosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.003 
PMID: 18675467  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Aug;31(8):428-34. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.002. Epub
2008 Jul 5.

Reliability, synchrony and noise.

Ermentrout GB(1), Galán RF, Urban NN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mathematics, University of Pittsburgh, Thackery Hall,
Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA.

The brain is noisy. Neurons receive tens of thousands of highly fluctuating
inputs and generate spike trains that appear highly irregular. Much of this
activity is spontaneous - uncoupled to overt stimuli or motor outputs - leading
to questions about the functional impact of this noise. Although noise is most
often thought of as disrupting patterned activity and interfering with the
encoding of stimuli, recent theoretical and experimental work has shown that
noise can play a constructive role - leading to increased reliability or
regularity of neuronal firing in single neurons and across populations. These
results raise fundamental questions about how noise can influence neural function
and computation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.002 
PMCID: PMC2574942
PMID: 18603311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Aug;31(8):392-400. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.006. Epub
2008 Jul 5.

Origin and function of olfactory bulb interneuron diversity.

Lledo PM(1), Merkle FT, Alvarez-Buylla A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Perception and Memory, Pasteur Institute, CNRS URA 2182, Paris
Cedex, France. pmlledo@pasteur.fr

In adult rodents, subventricular zone (SVZ) astrocytes (B cells) function as
primary progenitors in the generation of new neurons that migrate to the
olfactory bulb (OB), where they differentiate into multiple types of
interneurons. It has been generally considered that individual adult SVZ stem
cells are capable of generating different types of neurons and glial cells.
However, recent studies indicate that these adult SVZ primary progenitors are
heterogeneous and predetermined to generate specific types of neurons.
Surprisingly, OB interneurons are generated by stem cells not only in the walls
of the lateral ventricle facing the striatum but also in the rostral migratory
stream and walls of the lateral ventricle facing the cortex and the septum. SVZ B
cells in different locations within this extensive germinal region generate
different kinds of interneurons. General physiological characteristics of major
classes of OB interneurons have begun to emerge, but the functional contribution 
of each subtype remains unknown. The mosaic organization of the SVZ offers a
unique opportunity to understand the origin of interneuron diversity and how this
assortment of neurons contributes to plasticity of postnatal olfactory circuits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.006 
PMCID: PMC4059175
PMID: 18603310  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Aug;31(8):377-83. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.005. Epub
2008 Jul 3.

Two opposing plasticity mechanisms pulling a single synapse.

Rabinowitch I(1), Segev I.

Author information: 
(1)Interdisciplinary Center for Neural Computation, Institute of Life Sciences,
The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel.

Homeostatic synaptic plasticity (HSP) has been suggested to act as a negative
feedback mechanism responsible for globally and uniformly scaling (up or down)
the strength of all synapses in the neuron, in compensation for chronically
aberrant (too low or too high) levels of activity. Such global scaling preserves 
the relative strengths of synapses and thus keeps 'Hebbian-like' memory traces
(long-term potentiations, LTP, or depressions, LTD). However, new experimental
findings demonstrate that HSP can operate locally, controlling each synapse
individually. Seemingly, this finding implies that HSP can abolish any
modification of synaptic strength (erase LTP/LTD). We propose that dendrites
offer an inherent solution to this 'paradox' and that in fact local HSP might
confer upon the neuron several surprising benefits, which are demonstrated using 
computer simulations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.005 
PMID: 18602704  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Aug;31(8):410-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.004. Epub 2008
Jul 2.

Activity-dependent plasticity: implications for recovery after spinal cord
injury.

Dunlop SA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Experimental and Regenerative Neurosciences, School of Animal Biology (M092), 
The University of Western Australia, Crawley, WA, Australia.
sarah@cyllene.uwa.edu.au

Spinal cord injury causes devastating loss of function and progressive,
potentially life-threatening, secondary complications. Although significant
preclinical advances continue to be made in cellular and molecular therapies
which promote regeneration, plasticity within remaining circuits and how it can
be influenced by physical activity is evolving as a key research area.
Understanding what constitutes plasticity, and how activity shapes it, has
centred primarily on neurons, but evidence is emerging that activity also
influences glial cells. Basic and clinical research continue to advance our
knowledge of the quality and quantity of physical exercise required to improve
function, while mental exercise is emerging as another avenue. Increased
understanding of mechanisms driving activity-dependent plasticity will help
develop rehabilitative strategies which optimise functional recovery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.004 
PMID: 18602172  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Aug;31(8):401-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.002. Epub 2008
Jul 2.

Crossmodal binding through neural coherence: implications for multisensory
processing.

Senkowski D(1), Schneider TR, Foxe JJ, Engel AK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology and Pathophysiology, University Medical Center
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.

Picture yourself on a crowded sideway with people milling about. The acoustic and
visual signals generated by the crowd provide you with complementary information 
about their locations and motion which needs to be integrated. It is not well
understood how such inputs from different sensory channels are combined into
unified perceptual states. Coherence of oscillatory neural signals might be an
essential mechanism supporting multisensory perception. Evidence is now emerging 
which indicates that coupled oscillatory activity might serve to link neural
signals across uni- and multisensory regions and to express the degree of
crossmodal matching of stimulus-related information. These results argue for a
new view on multisensory processing which considers the dynamic interplay of
neural populations as a key to crossmodal integration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.002 
PMID: 18602171  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Aug;31(8):384-91. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.003. Epub
2008 Jul 1.

GDNF and GFRalpha: a versatile molecular complex for developing neurons.

Paratcha G(1), Ledda F.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular and Cellular Neuroscience, Department of Neuroscience,
Karolinska Institute, S-17177 Stockholm, Sweden. gustavo.paratcha@ki.se

The GDNF family ligands (GFLs) signal through the canonical signaling receptor
Ret and a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol-anchored co-receptor, GFRalpha. In recent
years, signaling by GFLs has been shown to be more complex than originally
assumed. The discrepant expression between GFRalphas and Ret has suggested the
existence of additional signal-transducing GDNF receptors, such as NCAM. Here we 
summarize novel functions and Ret-independent signaling mechanisms for GDNF and
GFRalpha, focusing on developing neurons. Emerging evidence indicates a prominent
role of GDNF and GFRalpha in the control of neuroblast migration and
chemoattraction and in the formation of neuronal synapses by a new mechanism of
ligand-induced cell adhesion. Therefore, these data highlight the importance of
this versatile molecular complex for nervous system development, function and
regeneration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.003 
PMID: 18597864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Aug;31(8):419-27. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.001. Epub
2008 Jul 1.

Dendritic spine dynamics--a key role for kalirin-7.

Penzes P(1), Jones KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine,
Chicago, IL 60611, USA. p-penzes@northwestern.edu

Changes in the structure and function of dendritic spines contribute to numerous 
physiological processes such as synaptic transmission and plasticity, as well as 
behavior, including learning and memory. Moreover, altered dendritic spine
morphogenesis and plasticity is an endophenotype of many neurodevelopmental and
neuropsychiatric disorders. Hence, the molecular mechanisms that control spine
plasticity and pathology have been under intense investigation over the past few 
years. A series of recent studies has improved our understanding of spine
dynamics by establishing kalirin-7 as an important regulator of dendritic spine
development as well as structural and functional plasticity, providing a model
for the molecular control of structural plasticity and implicating kalirin-7 in
synaptic pathology in several disorders including schizophrenia and Alzheimer's
disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.06.001 
PMCID: PMC3973420
PMID: 18597863  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jul;31(7):317-27. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.008. Epub
2008 Jun 13.

Cholinergic control of GABA release: emerging parallels between neocortex and
hippocampus.

Lawrence JJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Synaptic Neurophysiology, Eunice Kennedy Shriver
National Institutes of Child Health and Human Development, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. lawrenjo@mail.nih.gov

Release of acetylcholine (ACh) into the neocortex and hippocampus profoundly
alters cellular excitability, network synchronization and behavioral state.
Despite its diverse cellular and synaptic targets, the actions of ACh can be
highly specific, altering the excitability of distinct inhibitory and excitatory 
cell types. This review presents evidence for the selectivity of cholinergic
neuromodulation in GABAergic interneurons and identifies emerging parallels
between the neocortex and hippocampus. In light of growing evidence that
neuromodulatory specializations relate to neurochemical identity, I propose that 
differential engagement of neurochemically distinct interneuron subtypes is a
unifying principle by which ACh orchestrates the flow of sensory information in
the neocortex and hippocampus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.008 
PMID: 18556072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jul;31(7):328-34. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.006. Epub
2008 Jun 10.

Simple sequence repeats: genetic modulators of brain function and behavior.

Fondon JW 3rd(1), Hammock EA, Hannan AJ, King DG.

Author information: 
(1)McDermott Center for Human Growth and Development and Department of
Biochemistry, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390, 
USA.

Simple sequence repeats (SSRs), sometimes described as genetic 'stutters,' are
DNA tracts in which a short base-pair motif is repeated several to many times in 
tandem (e.g. CAGCAGCAG). These sequences experience frequent mutations that alter
the number of repeats. Because SSRs are commonly located in promoters,
untranslated regions and even coding sequences, such mutations can directly
influence almost any aspect of gene function. Mutational expansion of certain
triplet repeats is responsible for several hereditary neurodegenerative
disorders, but SSR alleles can also contribute to normal variation in brain and
behavioral traits. Here we review studies implicating SSRs not just in disease
but also in circadian rhythmicity, sociosexual interaction, aggression, cognition
and personality. SSRs can affect neuronal differentiation, brain development and 
even behavioral evolution.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.006 
PMID: 18550185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jul;31(7):335-42. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.007. Epub
2008 Jun 10.

Synaesthesia and cortical connectivity.

Bargary G(1), Mitchell KJ.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, Trinity College Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity
College Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2008 Nov;31(11):549-50; author reply 550-1.

Synaesthesia is a heritable condition of involuntary sensory cross-activation
whereby the presentation of a particular stimulus elicits a secondary
sensory-perceptual experience. It is thought to be caused by aberrant
cross-activation of one cortical area by another, but models differ as to whether
this reflects functional or structural differences in the brains of synaesthetes.
Here we consider these models in light of recent experimental findings and argue 
for structural differences in the brains of synaesthetes, which might be more
widespread than expected. We also discuss several plausible developmental
mechanisms that could link a putative genetic variant to altered cortical
connectivity and illustrate how synaesthesia could be an informative model to
investigate how patterns of connectivity between cortical areas are established.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.007 
PMID: 18550184  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jul;31(7):353-60. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.04.002. Epub
2008 Jun 10.

Neuroprotective actions of melanocortins: a therapeutic opportunity.

Catania A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Preclinical Investigation, Fondazione IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore
Policlinico, Mangiagalli e Regina Elena, 20122 Milano, Italy.
anna.catania@unimi.it

Alpha-melanocyte stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) and other melanocortins make up 
a family of endogenous peptides derived from pro-opiomelanocortin. Through
binding to five melanocortin receptors (MCR), these peptides exert multiple
influences on the host, including anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects.
The wide distribution of at least three melanocortin receptor subtypes (MC1R,
MC3R and MC4R) in neural, glial and endothelial cells suggests that these
receptors could be pharmacological targets for neuroprotective therapies. As a
consequence of modulation of NF-kappaB-mediated transcription, melanocortins
reduce production of pro-inflammatory agents in brain cells after injury. During 
brain ischemia, alpha-MSH and other melanocortins exert protective influences
with a broad time window. Further, melanocortins rescue neurons subjected to
excitotoxic insults, accelerate neurophysiological recovery after spinal cord
injury and increase regenerative capacity of peripheral nerves in postlesion
repair. Based on their established actions, melanocortins could form a novel
class of therapeutic agents for acute and chronic disorders of the nervous
system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.04.002 
PMID: 18550183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jul;31(7):361-70. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.04.001. Epub
2008 Jun 5.

White matter in learning, cognition and psychiatric disorders.

Fields RD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nervous System Development and Plasticity Section, National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, 
USA. fieldsd@mail.nih.gov

White matter is the brain region underlying the gray matter cortex, composed of
neuronal fibers coated with electrical insulation called myelin. Previously of
interest in demyelinating diseases such as multiple sclerosis, myelin is
attracting new interest as an unexpected contributor to a wide range of
psychiatric disorders, including depression and schizophrenia. This is
stimulating research into myelin involvement in normal cognitive function,
learning and IQ. Myelination continues for decades in the human brain; it is
modifiable by experience, and it affects information processing by regulating the
velocity and synchrony of impulse conduction between distant cortical regions.
Cell-culture studies have identified molecular mechanisms regulating myelination 
by electrical activity, and myelin also limits the critical period for learning
through inhibitory proteins that suppress axon sprouting and synaptogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.04.001 
PMCID: PMC2486416
PMID: 18538868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jul;31(7):371-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.001. Epub 2008
Jun 5.

Conservation of sleep: insights from non-mammalian model systems.

Zimmerman JE(1), Naidoo N, Raizen DM, Pack AI.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Sleep and Respiratory Neurobiology, Department of Medicine,
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 125 South 31st Street,
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

The past 10 years have seen new approaches to elucidating genetic pathways
regulating sleep. The emerging theme is that sleep-like states are conserved in
evolution, with similar signaling pathways playing a role in animals as distantly
related as flies and humans. We review the evidence for the presence of sleep
states in non-mammalian species including zebrafish (Danio rerio), fruitflies
(Drosophila melanogaster) and roundworms (Caenorhabditis elegans). We describe
conserved sleep-regulatory molecular pathways with a focus on cAMP and epidermal 
growth factor signaling; neurotransmitters with conserved effects on sleep and
wake regulation, including dopamine and GABA; and a conserved molecular response 
to sleep deprivation involving the chaperone protein BiP/GRP78.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.05.001 
PMCID: PMC2930986
PMID: 18538867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jul;31(7):343-52. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.005. Epub
2008 Jun 4.

Chromatin and nuclear architecture in the nervous system.

Takizawa T(1), Meshorer E.

Author information: 
(1)National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, 
USA.

Neurons are arguably the most varied cell type both morphologically and
functionally. Their fate during differentiation and development and the activity 
of mature neurons are significantly determined and regulated by chromatin. The
nucleus is compartmentalized and the arrangement of these compartments, termed
the nuclear architecture, distinguishes one cell type from another and dictates
many nuclear processes. Nuclear architecture determines the arrangement of
chromosomes, the positioning of genes within chromosomes, the distribution of
nuclear bodies and the interplay between these different factors. Importantly,
chromatin regulation has been shown to be the basis for a variety of central
nervous system processes including grooming and nursing, depression and stress,
and drug abuse, among others. Here we review the regulation and function of
nuclear architecture and chromatin structure in the context of the nervous system
and discuss the potential use of histone deacetylase inhibitors as
chromatin-directed therapy for nervous system disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.005 
PMID: 18538423  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jun;31(6):309-16. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.004. Epub
2008 May 9.

Active dendrites: colorful wings of the mysterious butterflies.

Johnston D(1), Narayanan R.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Learning and Memory, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 
78712, USA. djohnston@mail.clm.utexas.edu

Santiago Ramón y Cajal had referred to neurons as the 'mysterious butterflies of 
the soul.' Wings of these butterflies--their dendrites--were traditionally
considered as passive integrators of synaptic information. Owing to a growing
body of experimental evidence, it is now widely accepted that these wings are
colorful, endowed with a plethora of active conductances, with each family of
these butterflies made of distinct hues and shades. Furthermore, rapidly evolving
recent literature also provides direct and indirect demonstrations for
activity-dependent plasticity of these active conductances, pointing toward
chameleonic adaptability in these hues. These experimental findings firmly
establish the immense computational power of a single neuron, and thus constitute
a turning point toward the understanding of various aspects of neuronal
information processing. In this brief historical perspective, we track important 
milestones in the chameleonic transmogrification of these mysterious butterflies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.004 
PMID: 18471907  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jun;31(6):265-72. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.011. Epub
2008 May 9.

Cerebellar contributions to speech production and speech perception:
psycholinguistic and neurobiological perspectives.

Ackermann H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurology, Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, University
of Tuebingen, Hoppe-Seyler-Strasse 3, D-72076 Tuebingen, Germany.
hermann.ackermann@uni-tuebingen.de

Articulate speech represents a unique trait of our species. Besides other
structures, the cerebellum pertains to the brain network engaged in spoken
language production. Data from different sources point at a dual role of this
organ within the verbal domain: (i) the cerebellum appears to subserve the online
sequencing of syllables into fast, smooth and rhythmically organized larger
utterances, and (ii) furthermore, the cerebellum seems to participate in the
temporal organization of internal speech, that is, a prearticulatory verbal code.
Impaired prearticulatory verbal coding mechanisms could explain at least some of 
the perceptual and cognitive deficits observed in cerebellar disorders. Recent
genetic studies indicate that distinct mutations of a specific regulatory gene
(FOXP2) promoted the emergence of articulate speech during the course of hominid 
evolution. Conceivably, structural changes of the expressed FOXP2 protein
supported the 'vocal elaboration' of phylogenetically older brain networks
engaged in upper limb motor control, such as the cerebro-cerebellar loops.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.011 
PMID: 18471906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jun;31(6):279-86. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.003. Epub
2008 May 9.

Barriers in the brain: a renaissance?

Saunders NR(1), Ek CJ, Habgood MD, Dziegielewska KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC 3010,
Australia. n.saunders@unimelb.edu.au

Barrier mechanisms regulate the exchange of molecules between the brain's
internal milieu and the rest of the body. Correct functioning of these mechanisms
is critical for normal brain activity, maintenance and development. Dysfunctional
brain barrier mechanisms contribute to the pathology of neurological conditions, 
ranging from trauma to neurodegenerative diseases, and provide obstacles for
successful delivery of potentially beneficial pharmaceutical agents. Previous
decades of research have yielded insufficient understanding for solving brain
barrier problems in vivo. However, an awakening of interest and novel approaches 
are providing insight into these mechanisms in developing and dysfunctional
brain, as well as suggesting new approaches to circumventing brain barrier
mechanisms to get therapeutic agents into the central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.003 
PMID: 18471905  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jun;31(6):303-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.010. Epub 2008
May 9.

Altered vesicular dopamine storage in Parkinson's disease: a premature demise.

Caudle WM(1), Colebrooke RE, Emson PC, Miller GW.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurodegenerative Disease, Rollins School of Public Health, Emory
University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

Dopamine is a potentially toxic neurotransmitter that has long been speculated to
contribute to the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Recent work has
demonstrated the importance of proper storage of dopamine in vesicles to maintain
dopamine homeostasis, thus protecting neurons from the detrimental effects of
dopamine accumulation and breakdown in the cytosol. These studies suggest that
factors which affect dopamine storage might increase the susceptibility of
dopamine neurons to further environmental or genetic insults, exacerbating the
neuronal degeneration that characterizes PD. This review seeks to revisit the
pathogenicity of cytosolic dopamine and further address the critical role of
neurotransmitter storage in dopamine-mediated neurotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.010 
PMID: 18471904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jun;31(6):273-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.009. Epub 2008
May 9.

Are purines mediators of the anticonvulsant/neuroprotective effects of ketogenic 
diets?

Masino SA(1), Geiger JD.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Program/Psychology Department, Trinity College, Life Sciences
Center, 300 Summit Street, Hartford, CT 06106, USA. susan.masino@trincoll.edu

Abnormal neuronal signaling caused by metabolic changes characterizes several
neurological disorders, and in some instances metabolic interventions provide
therapeutic benefits. Indeed, altering metabolism either by fasting or by
maintaining a low-carbohydrate (ketogenic) diet might reduce epileptic seizures
and offer neuroprotection in part because the diet increases mitochondrial
biogenesis and brain energy levels. Here we focus on a novel hypothesis that a
ketogenic diet-induced change in energy metabolism increases levels of ATP and
adenosine, purines that are critically involved in neuron-glia interactions,
neuromodulation and synaptic plasticity. Enhancing brain bioenergetics (ATP) and 
increasing levels of adenosine, an endogenous anticonvulsant and neuroprotective 
molecule, might help with understanding and treating a variety of neurological
disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.009 
PMCID: PMC4469341
PMID: 18471903  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


661. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jun;31(6):296-302. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.001. Epub
2008 May 9.

Sexually differentiated central pattern generators in Xenopus laevis.

Zornik E(1), Yamaguchi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Boston University, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

Understanding the neural mechanisms that underlie the function of central pattern
generators (CPGs) presents a formidable challenge requiring sophisticated tools
and well-chosen model systems. In this article, we describe recent work on
vocalizations of the African clawed frog Xenopus laevis. These behaviors are
driven by sexually differentiated CPGs and are exceptionally well suited to this 
objective. In particular, a simplified mechanism of vocal production (independent
of respiratory musculature) allows straightforward interpretations of nerve
activity with respect to behavior. Furthermore, the development of a fictively
vocalizing isolated brain, together with the finding of rapid androgen-induced
masculinization of female vocalizations, provides an invaluable tool for
determining how new behaviors arise from existing circuits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.001 
PMCID: PMC2575109
PMID: 18471902  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jun;31(6):287-95. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.002. Epub
2008 May 9.

Neuronal TRP channels: thermometers, pathfinders and life-savers.

Talavera K(1), Nilius B, Voets T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Ion Channel Research, Division of Physiology, Department of
Molecular Cell Biology, KU Leuven, Campus Gasthuisberg O&N1, Herestraat 49 bus
802, 3000 Leuven, Belgium.

Cation channels of the TRP superfamily are widely expressed in the nervous
system, and important progress has been made in elucidating the gating properties
and physiological roles of neuronal TRPs. Recent studies have firmly established 
the role of temperature-sensitive TRPs (thermoTRPs) as the principal molecular
thermometers in the peripheral sensory system, and provided the first molecular
insight into the mechanisms underlying the exquisite thermo- and chemosensitivity
of these channels. Moreover, accumulating evidence implicates TRP channels in the
development of the central nervous system. In particular, Ca(2+) influx via TRPC 
channels appears to be a critical component of the signalling cascade that
mediates the guidance of growth cones and survival of neurons in response to
chemical cues such as neurotrophins or Netrin-1.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.03.002 
PMID: 18471901  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Trends Neurosci. 2008 May;31(5):243-50. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.007. Epub
2008 Apr 9.

Gap junctions: multifaceted regulators of embryonic cortical development.

Elias LA(1), Kriegstein AR.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of California San Francisco, 513
Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. eliasl@stemcell.ucsf.edu

The morphological development of the cerebral cortex from a primitive
neuroepithelium into a complex laminar structure underlying higher cognition must
rely on a network of intercellular signaling. Gap junctions are widely expressed 
during embryonic development and provide a means of cell-cell contact and
communication. We review the roles of gap junctions in regulating the
proliferation of neural progenitors as well as the migration and differentiation 
of young neurons in the embryonic cerebral cortex. There is substantial evidence 
that although gap junctions act in the classical manner coupling neural
progenitors, they also act as hemichannels mediating the spread of calcium waves 
across progenitor cell populations and as adhesive molecules aiding neuronal
migration. Gap junctions are thus emerging as multifaceted regulators of cortical
development playing diverse roles in intercellular communication.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.007 
PMCID: PMC2610634
PMID: 18403031  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Trends Neurosci. 2008 May;31(5):251-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.008. Epub 2008
Apr 9.

The mitochondrial impairment, oxidative stress and neurodegeneration connection: 
reality or just an attractive hypothesis?

Fukui H(1), Moraes CT.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Program, Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami,
FL 33136, USA.

Aging is the most important risk factor for common neurodegenerative disorders
such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. Aging in the central nervous system
has been associated with elevated mutation load in mitochondrial DNA, defects in 
mitochondrial respiration and increased oxidative damage. These observations
support a 'vicious cycle' theory which states that there is a feedback mechanism 
connecting these events in aging and age-associated neurodegeneration. Despite
being an extremely attractive hypothesis, the bulk of the evidence supporting the
mitochondrial vicious cycle model comes from pharmacological experiments in which
the modes of mitochondrial enzyme inhibition are far from those observed in real 
life. Furthermore, recent in vivo evidence does not support this model. In this
review, we focus on the relationship among the components of the putative vicious
cycle, with particular emphasis on the role of mitochondrial defects on oxidative
stress.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.008 
PMCID: PMC2731695
PMID: 18403030  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Trends Neurosci. 2008 May;31(5):257-64. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.006. Epub
2008 Apr 9.

Gephyrin: where do we stand, where do we go?

Fritschy JM(1), Harvey RJ, Schwarz G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland. fritschy@pharma.uzh.ch

Gephyrin is a multifunctional protein responsible for molybdenum cofactor
synthesis and the clustering of glycine and GABA(A) receptors at inhibitory
synapses. Based on the structure of its two conserved domains, G and E, gephyrin 
is thought to form a hexagonal lattice serving as a scaffold for accessory
proteins at postsynaptic sites. However, important aspects of gephyrin gene
expression, protein structure and regulation, as well as the role of gephyrin in 
synapse formation and plasticity, remain poorly understood. Here we review the
current state of knowledge about gephyrin, highlighting new research avenues
based on a different structural model and a revised nomenclature for gephyrin
splice variants. Unraveling the biology of gephyrin will further our
understanding of glycinergic and GABAergic synapses in health and disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.006 
PMID: 18403029  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Trends Neurosci. 2008 May;31(5):215-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.004. Epub
2008 Apr 7.

Axonal growth therapeutics: regeneration or sprouting or plasticity?

Cafferty WB(1), McGee AW, Strittmatter SM.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Cellular Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration and Repair, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, USA.

Loss of function after neurological injury frequently occurs through the
interruption of axonal connectivity, rather than through cell loss. Functional
deficits persist because a multitude of inhibitory factors in degenerating myelin
and astroglial scar prevent axonal growth in the adult brain and spinal cord.
Given the high clinical significance of achieving functional recovery through
axonal growth, substantial research effort has been, and will be, devoted toward 
this desirable goal. Unfortunately, the labels commonly used in the literature to
categorize post-injury axonal anatomy might hinder advancement. In this article, 
we present an argument for the importance of developing precise terms that
describe axonal growth in terms of the inciting event, the distance of axonal
extension and the timing of axonal growth. The phenotypes produced by molecular
interventions that overcome astroglial scar or myelin-associated inhibitors are
reframed and discussed in this context.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.004 
PMCID: PMC2678051
PMID: 18395807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Trends Neurosci. 2008 May;31(5):227-33. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.003. Epub
2008 Apr 7.

RNA editing, DNA recoding and the evolution of human cognition.

Mattick JS(1), Mehler MF.

Author information: 
(1)ARC Special Research Centre for Functional and Applied Genomics, Institute for
Molecular Bioscience, University of Queensland, St. Lucia, QLD 4072, Australia.

RNA editing appears to be the major mechanism by which environmental signals
overwrite encoded genetic information to modify gene function and regulation,
particularly in the brain. We suggest that the predominance of Alu elements in
the human genome is the result of their evolutionary co-adaptation as a modular
substrate for RNA editing, driven by selection for higher-order cognitive
function. We show that RNA editing alters transcripts from loci encoding proteins
involved in neural cell identity, maturation and function, as well as in DNA
repair, implying a role for RNA editing not only in neural transmission and
network plasticity but also in brain development, and suggesting that
communication of productive changes back to the genome might constitute the
molecular basis of long-term memory and higher-order cognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.003 
PMID: 18395806  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Trends Neurosci. 2008 May;31(5):234-42. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.005. Epub
2008 Apr 7.

Circuit-based framework for understanding neurotransmitter and risk gene
interactions in schizophrenia.

Lisman JE(1), Coyle JT, Green RW, Javitt DC, Benes FM, Heckers S, Grace AA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Brandeis University, 415 South Street, Waltham, MA
02454, USA. lisman@brandeis.edu

Many risk genes interact synergistically to produce schizophrenia and many
neurotransmitter interactions have been implicated. We have developed a
circuit-based framework for understanding gene and neurotransmitter interactions.
NMDAR hypofunction has been implicated in schizophrenia because NMDAR antagonists
reproduce symptoms of the disease. One action of antagonists is to reduce the
excitation of fast-spiking interneurons, resulting in disinhibition of pyramidal 
cells. Overactive pyramidal cells, notably those in the hippocampus, can drive a 
hyperdopaminergic state that produces psychosis. Additional aspects of
interneuron function can be understood in this framework, as follows. (i) In
animal models, NMDAR antagonists reduce parvalbumin and GAD67, as found in
schizophrenia. These changes produce further disinhibition and can be viewed as
the aberrant response of a homeostatic system having a faulty activity sensor
(the NMDAR). (ii) Disinhibition decreases the power of gamma oscillation and
might thereby produce negative and cognitive symptoms. (iii) Nicotine enhances
the output of interneurons, and might thereby contribute to its therapeutic
effect in schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.005 
PMCID: PMC2680493
PMID: 18395805  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Trends Neurosci. 2008 May;31(5):221-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.002. Epub 2008
Apr 18.

Novel roles for Nogo receptor in inflammation and disease.

David S(1), Fry EJ, López-Vales R.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Research in Neuroscience, The Research Institute of the McGill
University Health Center, 1650 Cedar Avenue, Montreal, QC H3G 1A4, Canada.
sam.david@mcgill.ca

The Nogo receptor (NgR), which was identified as a common receptor for three axon
growth inhibitors associated with myelin, has been extensively characterized for 
its role in triggering growth cone collapse and arresting neurite/axon growth.
Recent studies indicate that NgR is also expressed in nonneuronal cells and
modulates macrophage responses during inflammation after peripheral nerve injury.
In this article, we discuss the possibility that NgR might have wider effects on 
inflammation in a variety of neurological conditions ranging from central nervous
system trauma to diseases such as multiple sclerosis or Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.002 
PMID: 18394723  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Apr;31(4):176-82. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.005. Epub
2008 Mar 10.

Toll-like receptors: roles in neuroprotection?

Hanisch UK(1), Johnson TV, Kipnis J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuropathology, University of Göttingen, Robert-Koch-Strasse 40, 
D-37075 Göttingen, Germany. ukhanisch@med.uni-goettingen.de

Toll-like receptors (TLRs) enable mammalian cells to sense pathogenic challenges.
They are essential for appropriate initiation, execution and regulation of innate
and adaptive immune responses. Whereas TLR-mediated processes in the central
nervous system (CNS) might contribute to detrimental (auto)immune reactions, they
are unlikely to have exclusively neurodestructive consequences. Indeed,
appropriately controlled TLR signaling might be crucial for preserving CNS
structure and function in certain contexts. Recent findings illustrate
neuroprotective capacities for TLRs, mediated by containment of trauma-associated
infection or by recruitment of neuroprotective T lymphocytes. By the latter
mechanism, endogenous or therapeutically administered TLR ligands could
conceivably generate neuroprotective benefits in noninfectious CNS disorders.
This article focuses on the yet less-addressed protective potential of TLR
engagement within the CNS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.005 
PMID: 18329736  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Apr;31(4):183-91. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.004. Epub
2008 Mar 10.

Stress, sensitive periods and maturational events in adolescent depression.

Andersen SL(1), Teicher MH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, McLean Hospital and Harvard Medical School, 115 Mill
Street, Belmont, MA 02478, USA. sandersen@mclean.harvard.edu

In this paper, we provide an overview of how the maturation of specific brain
regions and stress exposure during windows of vulnerability initiate a series of 
events that render adolescents exceptionally susceptible to the development of
depression. This stress-incubation/corticolimbic development cascade provides a
means of understanding why depression emerges with such force and frequency in
adolescence. The development of the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, amygdala and 
ventral striatum is described from a translational perspective as they relate to 
stress exposure, onset, pathogenesis and gender differences in depression.
Adolescent depression is a serious recurrent brain-based disorder. Understanding 
the genesis and neurobiological basis is important in the development of more
effective intervention strategies to treat or prevent the disorder.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.004 
PMID: 18329735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Apr;31(4):192-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.006. Epub 2008
Mar 10.

Combining growth factor and stem cell therapy for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Suzuki M(1), Svendsen CN.

Author information: 
(1)The Waisman Center and Departments of Anatomy and Neurology, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 53707-2280, USA.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease where motor
neurons within the brain and spinal cord are lost, leading to paralysis and
death. Certain growth factors should, in principle, be able to protect dying
motor neurons. However, targeted delivery to the spinal cord or brain has been a 
constant problem. There is also accumulating evidence that glial cells might play
a crucial role in maintaining motor neuron function and survival in ALS. Stem
cells isolated and expanded in culture can be modified to release growth factors 
and generate glial cells following transplantation into the spinal cord or brain.
As such, they might be able to both detoxify the local environment around dying
motor neurons and deliver trophic factors. Here we examine the feasibility of
translating these findings into new treatments for ALS patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.006 
PMID: 18329734  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Apr;31(4):170-5. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.001. Epub 2008
Mar 10.

Defining memories by their distinct molecular traces.

Sossin WS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Montreal Neurological Institute,
McGill University, 3801 University Street, Montreal, QC H3A 2B4, Canada.
wayne.sossin@mcgill.ca

It is often stated that short-term memory is consolidated in a
protein-synthesis-dependent manner into long-term memory. Alternatively, memories
might consist of distinct molecular traces that last for different periods of
time. These traces can be graded by their 'volatility'; traces encoded by
activation of protein kinases are more volatile than traces encoded by
morphological changes at preexisting synapses. The least volatile ('static')
traces are due to the generation and stabilization of new synapses. Importantly, 
whereas at the cellular level these traces are generated independently of each
other, they might be linked at the network level where volatile memory traces are
required to set up a cellular network that is in turn required to induce the
static memory trace.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.001 
PMID: 18329733  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Apr;31(4):199-207. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.003. Epub
2008 Mar 7.

Cortical excitation and chronic pain.

Zhuo M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Centre for the Study of Pain,
University of Toronto, Medical Sciences Building, 1 King's College Circle,
Toronto, ON M5S 1A8, Canada. min.zhuo@utoronto.ca

Investigation of the basic mechanisms of chronic pain not only provides insights 
into how the brain processes and modulates sensory information but also provides 
the basis for designing novel treatments for currently intractable clinical
conditions. Human brain imaging studies have revealed new roles of cortical
neuronal networks in chronic pain, including its unpleasant quality, and mouse
studies have provided molecular and synaptic mechanisms underlying relevant
cortical plasticity. This review paper will critically examine the current
literature and propose a cortical network model for chronic pain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.003 
PMID: 18329111  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Apr;31(4):163-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.002. Epub 2008
Mar 7.

The neurogenic reserve hypothesis: what is adult hippocampal neurogenesis good
for?

Kempermann G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genomics of Regeneration, CRTD - Center for Regenerative Therapies Dresden,
Tatzberg 47-49, 01307 Dresden, Germany. gerd.kempermann@crt-dresden.de

Several theories have proposed possible functions of adult neurogenesis in
learning processes on a systems level, such as the avoidance of catastrophic
interference and the encoding of temporal and contextual information, and in
emotional behavior. Under the assumption of such functionality of new neurons,
the question arises: what are the consequences of adult hippocampal neurogenesis 
beyond the temporally immediate computational benefit? What might provide the
evolutionary advantage of maintaining neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus but
almost nowhere else? I propose that over the course of life, activity-dependently
regulated adult neurogenesis reveals its true significance in the retained
ability for lasting and cumulative network adaptations. The hippocampal precursor
cells that generate new neurons with their particular acute function represent a 
'neurogenic reserve': the potential to remain flexible and plastic in hippocampal
learning when the individual is exposed to novelty and complexity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.01.002 
PMID: 18329110  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Apr;31(4):208-13. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.001. Epub
2008 Mar 6.

Do all animals sleep?

Siegel JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, University of California, Los
Angeles and Neurobiology Research (151-A3), VA-GLAHS, North Hills, CA 91343, USA.
jsiegel@ucla.edu

Some animals never exhibit a state that meets the behavioral definition of sleep.
Others suspend or greatly reduce 'sleep' behavior for many weeks during the
postpartum period or during seasonal migrations without any consequent 'sleep
debt.' Rats die from one form of sleep deprivation, but sleep loss has not been
shown to cause death in well-controlled studies in other vertebrate species. Some
marine mammal species do not show evidence for REM sleep, and convincing evidence
for this state in reptiles, fish and insects is lacking. The enormous variation
in the nature of rest and sleep states across the animal kingdom and within the
mammalian class has important implications for understanding the evolution and
functions of sleep.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.02.001 
PMID: 18328577  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Mar;31(3):154-62. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.004. Epub
2008 Feb 8.

Abnormal development of the human cerebral cortex: genetics, functional
consequences and treatment options.

Guerrini R(1), Dobyns WB, Barkovich AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Children's Hospital A. Meyer,
University of Florence, Viale Pieraccini 24, 50139, Florence, Italy.
r.guerrini@meyer.it

Genetic studies have identified several of the genes associated with
malformations of cortical development which might disrupt each of the main stages
of cell proliferation and specification, neuronal migration and late cortical
organization. The largest malformation groups, focal cortical dysplasia,
heterotopia and polymicrogyria, express different perturbations of these stages
and carry a variable propensity for lacking activation, preservation or
reorganization of cortical function and for atypical cortical organization. Some 
patients have obvious neurological impairment, whereas others show unexpected
deficits that are detectable only by screening. Drug-resistant epilepsy is
frequent but might be amenable to surgical treatment. However, the epileptogenic 
zone might include remote cortical and subcortical regions. Completeness of
resection, a key factor for successful surgery, might be difficult, especially in
proximity to eloquent cortex. Surgical planning should be based on assessments of
structural imaging and of the major functions relevant to the area in question in
any such patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.004 
PMID: 18262290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Mar;31(3):120-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.006. Epub 2008
Feb 6.

MAOA and the neurogenetic architecture of human aggression.

Buckholtz JW(1), Meyer-Lindenberg A.

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt Brain Institute and Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt
University, Nashville, TN 37212, USA. joshua.buckholtz@vanderbilt.edu

Antisocial aggression is a widespread and expensive social problem. Although
aggressive behaviors and temperament are highly heritable, clinical and trait
associations for the most promising candidate gene for aggression, MAOA, have
been largely inconsistent. We suggest that limitations inherent to that approach 
might be overcome by using multimodal neuroimaging to characterize neural
mechanisms of genetic risk. Herein, we detail functional, structural and
connectivity findings implicating the low-expressing allele of the MAOA u-VNTR
(MAOA-L) in adversely prejudicing information processing within a corticolimbic
circuit composed of amygdala, rostral cingulate and medial prefrontal cortex. We 
propose that the MAOA-L, by causing an ontogenic excess of 5-hydroxytryptamine,
labilizes critical neural circuitry for social evaluation and emotion regulation 
(the 'socioaffective scaffold'), thereby amplifying the effects of adverse
early-life experience and creating deleterious sociocognitive biases. Our
construct provides a neurobiologically consistent model for gene-environment
interactions in impulsive aggression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.006 
PMID: 18258310  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Mar;31(3):137-45. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.005. Epub
2008 Feb 6.

Neuroanatomy of autism.

Amaral DG(1), Schumann CM, Nordahl CW.

Author information: 
(1)The M.I.N.D. Institute, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences,
University of California, Davis, 2825 50th Street, Sacramento, CA 95817, USA.
dgamaral@ucdavis.edu

Autism spectrum disorder is a heterogeneous, behaviorally defined,
neurodevelopmental disorder that occurs in 1 in 150 children. Individuals with
autism have deficits in social interaction and verbal and nonverbal communication
and have restricted or stereotyped patterns of behavior. They might also have
co-morbid disorders including intellectual impairment, seizures and anxiety.
Postmortem and structural magnetic resonance imaging studies have highlighted the
frontal lobes, amygdala and cerebellum as pathological in autism. However, there 
is no clear and consistent pathology that has emerged for autism. Moreover,
recent studies emphasize that the time course of brain development rather than
the final product is most disturbed in autism. We suggest that the heterogeneity 
of both the core and co-morbid features predicts a heterogeneous pattern of
neuropathology in autism. Defined phenotypes in larger samples of children and
well-characterized brain tissue will be necessary for clarification of the
neuroanatomy of autism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.005 
PMID: 18258309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Mar;31(3):130-6. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.002. Epub 2008
Feb 5.

Stability of the fittest: organizing learning through retroaxonal signals.

Harris KD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers University, 197
University Avenue, Newark, NJ 07102, USA. kdharris@rutgers.edu

Classically, neurons communicate by anterograde conduction of action potentials. 
However, information can also pass backward along axons, a process that is
essential during the development of the nervous system. Here we propose a role
for such 'retroaxonal' signals in adult learning. We hypothesize that
strengthening of a neuron's output synapses stabilizes recent changes in the same
neuron's inputs. During learning, the input synapses of many neurons undergo
transient changes, resulting in altered spiking activity. If this in turn
promotes strengthening of output synapses, the recent synaptic changes will be
stabilized; otherwise they will decay. A representation of sensory stimuli
therefore evolves that is tailored to the demands of behavioral tasks. We
describe a candidate molecular mechanism for this process involving the
activation of CREB by retrograde neurotrophin signals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.002 
PMID: 18255165  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Mar;31(3):146-53. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.001. Epub
2008 Feb 5.

Critical issues of clinical human embryonic stem cell therapy for brain repair.

Li JY(1), Christophersen NS, Hall V, Soulet D, Brundin P.

Author information: 
(1)Neuronal Survival Unit, Wallenberg Neuroscience Center, Department of
Experimental Medical Science, Lund University, BMC A10, 221 84 Lund, Sweden.
jia-yi.li@med.lu.se

Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) provide hope as a potential regenerative therapy for 
neurological conditions such as Parkinson's disease and spinal cord injury.
Currently, ESC-based nervous system repair faces several problems. One major
hurdle is related to problems in generating large and defined populations of the 
desired types of neurons from human ESCs (hESCs). Moreover, survival of grafted
hESC-derived cells has varied and functional recovery in recipient animals has
often been disappointing. Importantly, in clinical trials, adverse effects after 
surgery, including tumors or vigorous immune reactions, must be avoided. Here we 
highlight attempts to overcome these hurdles with hESCs intended for central
nervous system repair. We focus on hESC-derived dopamine-producing neurons that
can be grafted in Parkinson's disease and identify critical experiments that need
to be conducted before clinical trials can occur.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.001 
PMID: 18255164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Mar;31(3):113-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.003. Epub 2008
Feb 5.

A mechanism for inside-out lamination in the neocortex.

Cooper JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle,
WA 98109, USA. jcooper@fhcrc.org

We outline a unified model for inside-out layering of the neocortex, hinging on a
new interpretation for the effects of Reelin on neuronal migrations. The effects 
of Reelin on cortical structure have been analyzed in great detail, but it has
been unclear how individual migrating cells respond to Reelin. In our opinion,
many published results might be explained if Reelin acts on neurons when their
leading processes reach the marginal zone. Reelin then stimulates two parallel
events: detachment from radial glia and translocation of the cell soma to the top
of the developing cortical plate. This 'detach and go' model explains many
aspects of inside-out lamination, defects in the Reeler mutant and results of
recent genetic and in utero experiments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.12.003 
PMID: 18255163  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Feb;31(2):54-61. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.009. Epub 2008
Jan 16.

Trouble making the first move: interpreting arrested neuronal migration in the
cerebral cortex.

Sarkisian MR(1), Bartley CM, Rakic P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Kavli Institute of Neuroscience, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520, USA.

Postmitotic cortical neurons that fail to initiate migration can remain near
their site of origin and form persistent periventricular nodular heterotopia
(PH). In human telencephalon, this malformation is most commonly associated with 
Filamin-A (FLNa) mutations. The lack of genetic animal models that reliably
produce PH has delayed our understanding of the underlying molecular mechanisms. 
This review examines PH pathogenesis using a new mouse model. Although PH have
not been observed in Flna-deficient mice generated thus far, the loss of MEKK4, a
regulator of Flna, produces striking PH in mice and offers insight into the
mechanisms involved in neuronal migration initiation. Elucidating the basic
functions of FLNa and associated molecules is crucial for understanding the
causes of PH and for developing prevention for at-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.009 
PMID: 18201775  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Feb;31(2):90-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.008. Epub 2008 
Jan 16.

Growth cone chemotaxis.

Mortimer D(1), Fothergill T, Pujic Z, Richards LJ, Goodhill GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Queensland Brain Institute, The University of Queensland, St. Lucia QLD 4072, 
Australia.

Wiring up the nervous system depends on the precise guidance of axonal growth
cones to their targets. A key mechanism underlying this guidance is chemotaxis,
whereby growth cones detect and follow molecular gradients. Although recent work 
has uncovered many of the molecules involved in this process, the mechanisms
underlying chemotactic axon guidance are still unclear. Here we compare growth
cones with neutrophils and Dictyostelium discoideum, systems for which a clear
conceptual framework for chemotaxis has recently emerged. This analogy suggests
particular ways in which the three key steps of directional sensing, polarisation
and motility might be implemented in chemotaxing growth cones.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.008 
PMID: 18201774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Feb;31(2):82-9. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.010. Epub 2008 
Jan 16.

Regulation of AMPA receptor recruitment at developing synapses.

Hall BJ(1), Ghosh A.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Section, Division of Biological Sciences, University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0366, USA.

Fast synaptic current at most excitatory synapses in the brain is carried by AMPA
and NMDA subtypes of ionotropic glutamate receptors (AMPARs and NMDARs). During
development there is an increase in the ratio of AMPAR- to NMDAR-mediated current
at these synapses. Recent studies indicate that NMDAR signaling early in
development negatively regulates AMPAR expression and function at multiple
levels, which likely accounts for the small AMPAR current at developing synapses.
This contrasts with the positive role of NMDAR signaling in recruiting AMPARs to 
synapses during long-term potentiation in the adult brain. Thus, NMDARs exert
differential effects on the recruitment of AMPA receptors to synapses depending
on the developmental state of the neural circuit.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.010 
PMID: 18201773  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Feb;31(2):62-73. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.012. Epub 2008
Jan 16.

Cell and gene therapies in epilepsy--promising avenues or blind alleys?

Löscher W(1), Gernert M, Heinemann U.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Toxicology and Pharmacy, University of Veterinary 
Medicine Hannover, Bünteweg 17, 30559 Hannover, Germany.
wolfgang.loescher@tiho-hannover.de

The past decades have brought several advances to the treatment of epilepsy.
However, despite the continued development and release of new antiepileptic drugs
(AEDs), more than one-third of patients are resistant to pharmacological
treatment. Furthermore, current AEDs do not prevent the development and
progression of epilepsy. Thus, there is an urgent need to develop new therapies
for AED-resistant patients, for prevention of epilepsy in patients at risk and
for disease modification. Cell replacement and gene therapies have been proposed 
to offer potential approaches for improvements in therapy, but are such
approaches really more promising than new pharmacological strategies? Here we
critically review and discuss data from epilepsy models and human tissue studies 
indicating that cell and gene therapies might provide alternative therapeutic
approaches for AED-resistant focal epilepsies and might have antiepileptogenic or
disease-modifying potential. However, several crucial issues remain to be
resolved to develop cell and gene therapies into effective and safe therapies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.012 
PMID: 18201772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Feb;31(2):53. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.011. Epub 2008
Jan 16.

From basic science to novel treatments: lost in translation.

Ben-Ari Y, Barbour HR.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.011 
PMID: 18201771  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Feb;31(2):74-81. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.007. Epub 2008
Jan 15.

GPCR monomers and oligomers: it takes all kinds.

Gurevich VV(1), Gurevich EV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville,
TN 37232, USA. vsevolod.gurevich@vanderbilt.edu

Accumulating evidence of G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) oligomerization on the
one hand and perfect functionality of monomeric receptors on the other creates an
impression of controversy. However, the GPCR superfamily is extremely diverse,
both structurally and functionally. The life cycle of each receptor includes many
stages: synthesis, quality control in the endoplasmic reticulum, maturation in
the Golgi, delivery to the plasma membrane (where it can be in the inactive or
active state, in complex with cognate G protein, G-protein-coupled receptor
kinase or arrestin), endocytosis and subsequent sorting in endosomes. Different
GPCR subtypes, and even the same receptor at different stages of its life cycle, 
most likely exist in different oligomerization states, from monomers to dimers
and possibly higher-order oligomers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.007 
PMCID: PMC2366802
PMID: 18199492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Feb;31(2):99-104. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.005. Epub
2008 Jan 15.

The function of p75NTR in glia.

Cragnolini AB(1), Friedman WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Rutgers University, Newark, NJ 07102, USA.

The p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) is expressed on many cell types and can 
influence a variety of cellular functions. This receptor can mediate cell
survival or cell death, can promote or inhibit axonal growth and can facilitate
or attenuate proliferation, depending on the cell context. The emerging picture
regarding p75(NTR) indicates that it can partner with different coreceptors to
dictate specific responses. It then signals by recruiting intracellular binding
proteins to activate different signaling pathways. The function of p75(NTR) has
mainly been studied in neurons; however, it is also expressed in a variety of
glial populations, especially during development and after injury, where its
roles have been poorly defined. In this review, we will examine the potential
roles for p75(NTR) in glial function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.005 
PMID: 18199491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Feb;31(2):105-12. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.006. Epub
2008 Jan 15.

Where is the trace in trace conditioning?

Woodruff-Pak DS(1), Disterhoft JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA 19122-6011, USA.

Intensive mapping of the essential cerebellar brain circuits for Pavlovian
eyeblink conditioning appeared relatively complete by 2000, but new data indicate
the need for additional differentiation of cerebellar regions and mechanisms
coding delay and trace conditioning. This is especially important, as trace
conditioning is an experimentally tractable model of declarative learning. The
temporal gap in trace eyeblink conditioning may be bridged by forebrain regions
through pontine-cerebellar nuclear connections that can bypass cerebellar cortex,
whereas a cerebellar cortical long-term-depression-like process appears to be
required to support normal delay conditioning. Experiments focusing on the role
of cerebellar cortex and deep nuclei in delay versus trace conditioning add
perspective on brain substrates of these seemingly similar paradigms, which
differ only by a brief stimulus-free time gap between conditioned and
unconditioned stimuli. This temporal gap appears to impose forebrain dependencies
and differentially engage different cerebellar circuitry during acquisition of
conditioned responses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.006 
PMID: 18199490  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jan;31(1):1-7. Epub 2007 Dec 3.

The coming out of the brain mineralocorticoid receptor.

Joëls M(1), Karst H, DeRijk R, de Kloet ER.

Author information: 
(1)SILS-CNS, University of Amsterdam, 1098 SM Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
joels@science.uva.nl

Corticosteroids - secreted after stress - have profound effects on brain and
behavior. These effects are mediated by mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid
receptors, which are abundantly expressed in limbic neurons. The role of
mineralocorticoid receptors in higher brain functions has never been well
understood. Here we argue that the recently discovered low-affinity membrane
version of the mineralocorticoid receptor contributes to the initial phase of the
stress reaction; this is complemented by the glucocorticoid receptor which
terminates the stress response. This concept may explain why human carriers of a 
mineralocorticoid receptor gene variant display enhanced neuroendocrine and
autonomic responsiveness to a psychological stressor.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.10.005 
PMID: 18063498  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jan;31(1):44-52. Epub 2007 Dec 3.

A 'GAG' reflex prevents repair of the damaged CNS.

Sherman LS(1), Back SA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, Oregon National Primate Research Center, Oregon
Health & Science University, Beaverton, OR 97006, USA. shermanl@ohsu.edu

The extracellular matrix of the central nervous system (CNS) serves as both a
supporting structure for cells and a rich source of signaling molecules that can 
influence cell proliferation, survival, migration and differentiation. A large
proportion of this matrix is composed of proteoglycans--proteins with long chains
of polysaccharides, called glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), covalently attached.
Although many of the activities of proteoglycans depend on their core proteins,
GAGs themselves can influence cell signaling. Here we review accumulating
evidence that two GAGs, chondroitin sulfate and hyaluronan, play essential roles 
during nervous system development but also accumulate in chronic CNS lesions and 
inhibit axonal regeneration and remyelination, making them significant hindrances
to CNS repair. We propose that the balance between the synthesis and degradation 
of these molecules dictates, in part, how regeneration and recovery from CNS
damage occurs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.001 
PMID: 18063497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jan;31(1):27-36. Epub 2007 Dec 4.

Melanopsin: an exciting photopigment.

Hankins MW(1), Peirson SN, Foster RG.

Author information: 
(1)Circadian and Visual Neuroscience Group, Nuffield Laboratory of Ophthalmology,
University of Oxford, Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Roosevelt Drive, 
Oxford OX3 7BN, UK. mark.hankins@eye.ox.ac.uk

The discovery that mice lacking rods and cones are capable of regulating their
circadian rhythms by light provided the conceptual framework for the discovery of
an entirely new photoreceptor system within the mammalian eye. We now know that a
small subset of retinal ganglion cells are directly photosensitive and utilize an
opsin/vitamin A-based photopigment called melanopsin maximally sensitive in the
blue part of the spectrum. We also know that these photosensitive retinal
ganglion cells mediate a broad range of physiological responses to light, ranging
from the regulation of circadian rhythms to pupil constriction. Most recently, it
has become clear that the melanopsins are only distantly related to visual
pigments and in terms of their biochemistry share more in common with
invertebrate photopigments. Here we outline the discovery of this remarkable new 
photoreceptor system, review the structure of melanopsin and conclude with a
working model of melanopsin phototransduction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.002 
PMID: 18054803  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jan;31(1):37-43. Epub 2007 Dec 4.

Water movements in the brain: role of aquaporins.

Tait MJ(1), Saadoun S, Bell BA, Papadopoulos MC.

Author information: 
(1)Academic Neurosurgery Unit, St. George's University of London, Cranmer
Terrace, Tooting, London SW17 0RE, UK.

About 80% of the brain is water. This review discusses the importance of the
three brain water-channel proteins (AQP1, AQP4, AQP9) in brain physiology. AQP1
is expressed in the choroid plexus and participates in forming cerebrospinal
fluid. AQP4, found in astrocyte foot processes, glia limitans and ependyma,
facilitates water movement into and out of the brain, accelerates astrocyte
migration and alters neuronal activity. Recently, AQP4 autoantibodies were
discovered in patients with neuromyelitis optica, a demyelinating disease, and
are now being used to diagnose this condition. AQP9 is present in some glia and
neurons, but its function is unclear. Finally, we discuss how the discovery of
AQP activators and inhibitors will be the next major step in this field.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.003 
PMID: 18054802  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jan;31(1):8-19. Epub 2007 Dec 4.

Calcium dynamics: analyzing the Ca2+ regulatory network in intact cells.

Friel DD(1), Chiel HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Case Western Reserve University, 10900 Euclid
Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44106-4975, USA. david.friel@case.edu

Calcium signaling is critical for all cells. As a free ion (Ca(2+)), calcium
links many physiological stimuli to their intracellular effectors by interacting 
with binding proteins whose occupancy determines the cellular effect of
stimulation. Because binding site occupancy depends on the history of Ca(2+)
concentration ([Ca(2+)]), Ca(2+) dynamics are critical. Calcium dynamics depend
on the functional interplay between Ca(2+) transport and buffering systems whose 
activities depend nonlinearly on [Ca(2+)]. Thus, understanding Ca(2+) dynamics
requires detailed information about these Ca(2+) handling systems and their
regulation in intact cells. However, effective methods for measuring and
characterizing intracellular Ca(2+) handling have not been available until
recently. Using concepts relating voltage-gated ion-channel activity to membrane 
potential dynamics, we developed such methods to analyze Ca(2+) fluxes in intact 
cells. Here we describe this approach and applications to understanding
depolarization-induced Ca(2+) responses in sympathetic neurons.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.11.004 
PMID: 18054801  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Jan;31(1):20-6. Epub 2007 Dec 3.

Posttranscriptional control of neuronal development by microRNA networks.

Gao FB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, Department of Neurology,
Neuroscience Graduate Program, University of California, 1650 Owens Street, San
Francisco, CA 94158, USA. fgao@gladstone.ucsf.edu

The proper development of the nervous system requires precise spatial and
temporal control of gene expression at both the transcriptional and translational
levels. In different experimental model systems, microRNAs (miRNAs) - a class of 
small, endogenous, noncoding RNAs that control the translation and stability of
many mRNAs - are emerging as important regulators of various aspects of neuronal 
development. Further dissection of the in vivo physiological functions of
individual miRNAs promises to offer novel mechanistic insights into the gene
regulatory networks that ensure the precise assembly of a functional nervous
system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.10.004 
PMCID: PMC3545480
PMID: 18054394  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Dec;30(12):612-21. Epub 2007 Nov 8.

Noncoding RNAs: couplers of analog and digital information in nervous system
function?

St Laurent G 3rd(1), Wahlestedt C.

Author information: 
(1)The George Washington University Medical Center, Department of Biochemistry
and Molecular Biology, 2300 I Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20037, USA.

The mammalian nervous system expresses numerous noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs). We
propose that ncRNAs are capable of coupling the digital information universe of
nucleic acids with the analog universe of cellular protein interactions. ncRNAs
could contribute to the success of the organism's information processing in
several ways. First, ncRNAs would allow for efficient coupling of energy with
information, wherein less energy is required to represent and process more
information, condensed in analog and digital form, into smaller spatial and
temporal domains, ideal for the environments found in neural tissues. Second,
ncRNAs would permit the rapid acquisition of information from the environment,
along with the rapid flexible processing and elimination of that information when
it is no longer necessary. Third, ncRNAs would facilitate accelerated evolution
of an organism's information content and functional computational systems. This
emerging panorama might open new dimensions of information processing in the
nervous system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.10.002 
PMID: 17996312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Dec;30(12):645-52. Epub 2007 Nov 7.

Neural-immune interactions in disorders of sleep-wakefulness organization.

Bentivoglio M(1), Kristensson K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Morphological and Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine,
Strada Le Grazie 8, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.
marina.bentivoglio@univr.it

Novel findings on the effects of inflammatory molecules on neuronal circuits, and
on molecular interactions between immunity and sleep, in health and disease, shed
light on the pathogenesis of disorders of past (encephalitis lethargica) and
present concern (human African trypanosomiasis and narcolepsy), which share
alterations in sleep-wakefulness transitions. Although these three disorders
differ in etiology, synaptic interactions with immune-response-derived molecules 
could play a pathogenetic role. Knowledge obtained on neural-immune interplay
during senescence also has implications for age-related sleep dysregulation,
which is common in the elderly population. Altogether, the data indicate that
cell groups implicated in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness, circadian
timing, and their interactions could be sensitive to synaptic effects of immune
molecules.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.09.004 
PMID: 17988749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Dec;30(12):622-9. Epub 2007 Nov 5.

What can we learn from synaptic weight distributions?

Barbour B(1), Brunel N, Hakim V, Nadal JP.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie (CNRS UMR 8544), Ecole Normale Supérieure, 46 rue
d'Ulm, 75005 Paris, France. barbour@ens.fr

Much research effort into synaptic plasticity has been motivated by the idea that
modifications of synaptic weights (or strengths or efficacies) underlie learning 
and memory. Here, we examine the possibility of exploiting the statistics of
experimentally measured synaptic weights to deduce information about the learning
process. Analysing distributions of synaptic weights requires a theoretical
framework to interpret the experimental measurements, but the results can be
unexpectedly powerful, yielding strong constraints on possible learning theories 
as well as information that is difficult to obtain by other means, such as the
information storage capacity of a cell. We review the available experimental and 
theoretical techniques as well as important open issues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.09.005 
PMID: 17983670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Dec;30(12):630-7. Epub 2007 Nov 5.

Kainate receptors with a metabotropic modus operandi.

Rodríguez-Moreno A(1), Sihra TS.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiología, Anatomía y Biología Celular, Universidad Pablo de 
Olavide, Ctra. de Utrera Km. 1, Seville, Spain. arodmor@upo.es

Kainate receptors (KARs), together with AMPA and NMDA, are typically described as
ionotropic glutamate receptors. The functions of KARs have begun to be elucidated
only in the last decade. Although some the actions of KARs are classically
ionotropic, surprisingly others seem to involve the activation of
second-messenger cascades and invoke metabotropic roles for this type of
glutamate receptor. In this review, we describe these metabotropic actions of
KARs in relation to the putative signalling cascades involved. Although it is
still a mystery how KARs activate G proteins to stimulate second-messenger
cascades, intriguingly, in very recent studies, specific subunits of KARs have
been demonstrated to associate with G proteins. Altogether, the body of evidence 
supports the hypothesis that, together with the canonical ionotropic operation,
KARs expedite long-lasting signalling by novel metabotropic modes of action.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.10.001 
PMID: 17981346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Dec;30(12):653-61. Epub 2007 Nov 5.

Short-term plasticity in auditory cognition.

Jääskeläinen IP(1), Ahveninen J, Belliveau JW, Raij T, Sams M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Computational Engineering, Helsinki University of Technology,
FIN-02015 TKK, Espoo, Finland. iiro.jaaskelainen@tkk.fi

Converging lines of evidence suggest that auditory system short-term plasticity
can enable several perceptual and cognitive functions that have been previously
considered as relatively distinct phenomena. Here we review recent findings
suggesting that auditory stimulation, auditory selective attention and
cross-modal effects of visual stimulation each cause transient excitatory and
(surround) inhibitory modulations in the auditory cortex. These modulations might
adaptively tune hierarchically organized sound feature maps of the auditory
cortex (e.g. tonotopy), thus filtering relevant sounds during rapidly changing
environmental and task demands. This could support auditory sensory memory,
pre-attentive detection of sound novelty, enhanced perception during selective
attention, influence of visual processing on auditory perception and longer-term 
plastic changes associated with perceptual learning.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.09.003 
PMID: 17981345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Dec;30(12):638-44. Epub 2007 Nov 5.

From nose to fertility: the long migratory journey of gonadotropin-releasing
hormone neurons.

Cariboni A(1), Maggi R, Parnavelas JG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Centre of Excellence on Neurodegenerative
Diseases, University of Milan, Milan 20133, Italy.

Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons, a small number of cells dispersed 
in the hypothalamic region of the basal forebrain, play an important role in
reproductive function. These neurons originate in the nasal placode and migrate, 
first in the nasal compartment, then through the cribriform plate and finally
through the basal forebrain, before they attain their positions in the
hypothalamus. Their movement through changing molecular environments suggests
that numerous factors are involved in different phases of their migration. In
humans, failure of GnRH neurons to migrate normally results in delayed or absent 
pubertal maturation and infertility. Advances in genetic and molecular biologic
techniques in this decade have allowed us to gain insights into several molecules
that affect the migration of GnRH neurons and, consequently, play a role in the
establishment and maintenance of reproductive function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.09.002 
PMID: 17981344  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Nov;30(11):581-6. Epub 2007 Oct 23.

Phosphatase PTEN in neuronal injury and brain disorders.

Chang N(1), El-Hayek YH, Gomez E, Wan Q.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Fundamental Neurobiology, Toronto Western Research Institute,
University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The phosphatase and tensin homologue PTEN was originally identified as a tumor
suppressor. In the CNS, mutation or inactivation of PTEN is best known for
playing a tumorigenic role in the molecular pathogenesis of glioblastoma.
However, recent studies show that PTEN is associated with several brain diseases 
other than cancer, suggesting a broader role of PTEN in CNS pathophysiology.
Here, we review the evidence for the crucial involvement of PTEN in neuronal
injury as well as in neurological and psychiatric disorders, and discuss the
potential of PTEN as a molecular target for the development of a novel CNS
therapeutic strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.08.006 
PMID: 17959258  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Nov;30(11):564-72. Epub 2007 Oct 22.

Munc18-1 in secretion: lonely Munc joins SNARE team and takes control.

Toonen RF(1), Verhage M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Functional Genomics, Center for Neurogenomics and Cognitive
Research, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1087, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.

SNARE proteins and the Sec1/Munc18 (SM) protein, Munc18-1, are essential
components of the mammalian secretion machinery. Until recently, quite divergent 
working models existed for the central but rather isolated role of Munc18-1 in
secretion and its relation to the SNAREs. New studies now solve old
discrepancies, bring consensus among SM-SNARE interactions and emphasize how
closely these proteins work together. Together, SM and SNARE proteins control
each step in the exocytotic pathway as a team. Munc18-1 operates as the chief
commander of the exocytotic SNARE team, making teamwork more efficient, working
with specific team members on specific jobs, reducing promiscuity with members of
noncognate teams, and adjusting team efforts as a function of recent history and 
environmental cues (presynaptic receptor activation).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.08.008 
PMID: 17956762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Nov;30(11):587-95. Epub 2007 Oct 24.

The ubiquitin-proteasome pathway in health and disease of the nervous system.

Hegde AN(1), Upadhya SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, Wake Forest University Health
Sciences, Medical Center Boulevard, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA.
ahegde@wfubmc.edu

In recent years, proteolysis by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway has attained
prominence as a new molecular mechanism that regulates many vital functions of
the nervous system, including development of synaptic connections and synaptic
plasticity. Here, we review the latest findings on the role of proteolysis in
sculpting the nervous system through control of axonal growth, axonal and
dendritic pruning, and regulation of synaptic size and number. We also discuss
how protein degradation functions in synaptic plasticity and the roles of local
proteolysis in neuronal compartments. In addition, we describe how proteolysis is
associated with Alzheimer's disease and ataxia. Furthermore, we highlight the
recent approaches that exploit components of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway for
amelioration of these diseases in animal models.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.08.005 
PMID: 17950927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Nov;30(11):596-602. Epub 2007 Oct 24.

Neuronal 'On' and 'Off' signals control microglia.

Biber K(1), Neumann H, Inoue K, Boddeke HW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Physiology, University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG), 
University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. k.p.h.biber@med.umcg.nl

Recent findings indicate that neurons are not merely passive targets of microglia
but rather control microglial activity. The variety of different signals that
neurons use to control microglia can be divided into two categories: 'Off'
signals constitutively keep microglia in their resting state and antagonize
proinflammatory activity. 'On' signals are inducible and include purines,
chemokines, glutamate. They instruct microglia activation under pathological
conditions towards a beneficial or detrimental phenotype. Various neuronal
signaling molecules thus actively control microglia function, thereby contribute 
to the inflammatory milieu of the central nervous system. Thus, neurons should be
envisaged as key immune modulators in the brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.08.007 
PMID: 17950926  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Nov;30(11):555-63. Epub 2007 Oct 22.

From genes to pain: Na v 1.7 and human pain disorders.

Dib-Hajj SD(1), Cummins TR, Black JA, Waxman SG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06510, USA.

Gain-of-function mutations or dysregulated expression of voltage-gated sodium
channels can produce neuronal hyperexcitability, leading to acute or chronic
pain. The sodium channel Na(v)1.7 is expressed preferentially in most slowly
conducting nociceptive neurons and in sympathetic neurons. Gain-of-function
mutations in the Na(v)1.7 channel lead to DRG neuron hyperexcitability associated
with severe pain, whereas loss of the Na(v)1.7 channel in patients leads to
indifference to pain. The contribution of Na(v)1.7 to acquired and inherited pain
states and the absence of motor, cognitive and cardiac deficits in patients
lacking this channel make it an attractive target for the treatment of
neuropathic pain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.08.004 
PMID: 17950472  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Nov;30(11):573-80. Epub 2007 Oct 22.

The TASK background K2P channels: chemo- and nutrient sensors.

Duprat F(1), Lauritzen I, Patel A, Honoré E.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Pharmacologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, Université de Nice-Sophia
Antipolis, UMR CNRS 6097, Valbonne, France.

Specialized chemo- and nutrient-sensing cells share a common electrophysiological
mechanism by transducing low O(2), high CO(2) and low glucose stimuli into a
compensatory cellular response: the closing of background K(+) channels encoded
by the K(2P) subunits. Inhibition of the TASK K(2P) channels by extracellular
acidosis leads to an increased excitability of brainstem respiratory neurons.
Moreover, hypoxic down-modulation of TASK channels is implicated in the
activation of glomus cells in the carotid body. Stimulation of both types of cell
leads to an enhanced ventilation and to cardiocirculatory adjustments.
Differential modulation of TASK channels by acidosis and high glucose alters
excitability of the hypothalamic orexin neurons, which influence arousal, food
seeking and breathing. These recent results shed light on the role of TASK
channels in sensing physiological stimuli.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.08.003 
PMID: 17945357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Nov;30(11):603-10. Epub 2007 Nov 1.

Bloodless FMRI.

Jasanoff A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Nuclear Science and Engineering, Biological Engineering and
Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
MA 02139, USA. jasanoff@mit.edu

Conventional functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a blunt tool for
studying the nervous system because it measures neural activity only indirectly, 
by way of hemodynamics and neurovascular coupling. Several alternative,
nonhemodynamic functional imaging methods are now being explored. The methods are
designed to offer better resolution and neuronal specificity than hemodynamic
imaging and, in some cases, might report signals from specific molecules or cell 
populations. Much progress has concentrated in three areas: diffusion-weighted
functional imaging; detection of neuronal electromagnetic fields; and molecular
imaging of neural metabolites and signaling species. Here, we review recent
developments in these areas. We consider unique advantages and disadvantages of
'bloodless fMRI' approaches, as well as their future prospects as experimental
tools in cognitive and systems neuroscience.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.08.002 
PMID: 17935797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Oct;30(10):504-11. Epub 2007 Sep 29.

Emerging ideas about kisspeptin- GPR54 signaling in the neuroendocrine regulation
of reproduction.

Kauffman AS(1), Clifton DK, Steiner RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

Neurons that produce gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) drive the reproductive
axis, but the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which hormonal and
environmental signals regulate GnRH secretion remain poorly understood.
Kisspeptins are products of the Kiss1 gene, and the interaction of kisspeptin and
its receptor GPR54 plays a crucial role in governing the onset of puberty and
adult reproductive function. This review discusses the latest ideas about
kisspeptin-GPR54 signaling in the neuroendocrine regulation of reproduction, with
special emphasis on the role of Kiss1 and kisspeptin in the negative and positive
feedback control of gonadotropin secretion by sex steroids, timing of puberty
onset, sexual differentiation of the brain and photoperiodic regulation of
seasonal reproduction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.08.001 
PMID: 17904653  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Oct;30(10):545-53. Epub 2007 Sep 29.

Re-emergence of striatal cholinergic interneurons in movement disorders.

Pisani A(1), Bernardi G, Ding J, Surmeier DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Fondazione Santa Lucia IRCCS, and Clinica Neurologica, Dipartimento di
Neuroscienze, Università di Roma Tor Vergata, Via Montpellier 1, 00135, Rome,
Italy. pisani@uniroma2.it

Twenty years ago, striatal cholinergic neurons were central figures in models of 
basal ganglia function. But since then, they have receded in importance. Recent
studies are likely to lead to their re-emergence in our thinking. Cholinergic
interneurons have been implicated as key players in the induction of synaptic
plasticity and motor learning, as well as in motor dysfunction. In Parkinson's
disease and dystonia, diminished striatal dopaminergic signalling leads to
increased release of acetylcholine by interneurons, distorting network function
and inducing structural changes that undoubtedly contribute to the symptoms. By
contrast, in Huntington's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy, there is a 
fall in striatal cholinergic markers. This review gives an overview of these
recent experimental and clinical studies, placing them within the context of the 
pathogenesis of movement disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.07.008 
PMID: 17904652  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Oct;30(10):527-35. Epub 2007 Sep 29.

Neurotransmitter receptors on microglia.

Pocock JM(1), Kettenmann H.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Signalling Laboratory, Department of Neuroinflammation, Institute of
Neurology, University College London, 1 Wakefield Street, London WC1N 1PJ, UK.
j.pocock@ion.ucl.ac.uk

Microglia are the intrinsic immune cells of the brain and express chemokine and
cytokine receptors that interact with the peripheral immune cells. Recent studies
have indicated that microglia also respond to the brain's classical signalling
substances, the neurotransmitters. Here, we review the evidence for the
expression of neurotransmitter receptors on microglia and the consequences of
this receptor activation for microglial behaviour. It is evident that
neurotransmitters instruct microglia to perform distinct types of responses, such
as triggering an inflammatory cascade or acquiring a neuroprotective phenotype.
Understanding how microglia respond to different neurotransmitters will thus have
important implications for controlling the reactivity of these cells in acute
injury, as well as for treating chronic neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.07.007 
PMID: 17904651  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Oct;30(10):490-6. Epub 2007 Sep 25.

Fever, febrile seizures and epilepsy.

Dubé CM(1), Brewster AL, Richichi C, Zha Q, Baram TZ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy/Neurobiology, University of California at Irvine, ZOT
4475, Irvine, CA 92697-4475, USA.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci. 2007 Dec;30(12):611.

Seizures induced by fever (febrile seizures) are the most common type of
pathological brain activity in infants and children. These febrile seizures and
their potential contribution to the mechanisms of limbic (temporal lobe) epilepsy
have been a topic of major clinical and scientific interest. Key questions
include the mechanisms by which fever generates seizures, the effects of long
febrile seizures on neuronal function and the potential contribution of these
seizures to epilepsy. This review builds on recent advances derived from animal
models and summarizes our current knowledge of the mechanisms underlying febrile 
seizures and of changes in neuronal gene expression and function that facilitate 
the enduring effects of prolonged febrile seizures on neuronal and network
excitability. The review also discusses the relevance of these findings to the
general mechanisms of epileptogenesis during development and points out gaps in
our knowledge, including the relationship of animal models to human febrile
seizures and epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.07.006 
PMCID: PMC2766556
PMID: 17897728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Oct;30(10):536-44. Epub 2007 Sep 6.

Heterogeneity in motoneuron disease.

Lambrechts D(1), Robberecht W, Carmeliet P.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Transgene Technology and Gene Therapy, K.U. Leuven, B-3000,
Leuven, Belgium.

Recently, mutations in several genes have been identified as primary causes for
the degeneration of motoneurons and their axons. Strikingly, mutations in the
same genes were associated with clinically different motoneuron syndromes. The
identity of these genes also shed light on the mechanisms of motoneuron
degeneration and revealed that overlapping motoneuron phenotypes might be caused 
by heterogeneous molecular mechanisms. Overall, these findings have challenged
the diagnostic classification system set by clinical judgement and triggered the 
notion of heterogeneity in motoneuron disease. It will now be especially relevant
to identify the mechanisms and principles that motoneuron diseases have in
common, as this will allow us to identify the most relevant therapeutic targets. 
On the other hand, heterogeneity in motoneuron disease also implies that finding 
a monotherapy cure for motoneuron disease will be challenging and that
pre-clinical testing of therapeutic targets should not be limited to a single
animal model.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.07.002 
PMID: 17825438  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Oct;30(10):497-503. Epub 2007 Sep 6.

Over-inhibition: a model for developmental intellectual disability.

Fernandez F(1), Garner CC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Nancy Pritzker Laboratory,
Stanford University, 1201 Welch Rd, Palo Alto, CA 94304-5485, USA.

Developmental intellectual disability (DID) is a daunting societal problem.
Although tremendous progress has been made in defining the genetic causes of DID,
therapeutic strategies remain limited. In particular, there is a marked absence
of a unified approach to treating cognitive impairments associated with DID.
Here, we suggest that the brain in many DID-related disorders is subject to a
basic imbalance in neuronal activity, with an increased contribution of
inhibition to neural circuits. This over-inhibition, in turn, is predicted to
lead to deficits in synaptic plasticity and learning and memory. We further
discuss possibilities for pharmacological intervention in DID, focusing on the
concept of drug-induced 'therapeutic neuroadaptation' as a means of stably
enhancing constitutive circuit excitability and cognition over time.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.07.005 
PMID: 17825437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Oct;30(10):512-9. Epub 2007 Sep 6.

Sensitivity and specificity in Drosophila pheromone perception.

Benton R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurogenetics and Behavior, The Rockefeller University, 1230
York Avenue Box 63, New York, NY 10065, USA. Richard.Benton@unil.ch

How the brain perceives volatile chemicals in the environment to evoke the
appropriate behaviour is a fundamental question in sensory neuroscience. The
olfactory system of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, has emerged as a
powerful model system to address this problem. Recent analysis of the molecular, 
neuroanatomical and physiological properties of the olfactory circuits that
detect the sex and social aggregation pheromone cis-vaccenyl acetate now provides
one of the most comprehensive outlines for the neural basis of odour perception. 
This review describes these latest advances, discusses what they reveal about
where stimulus sensitivity and specificity is encoded in olfactory circuits, and 
considers future questions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.07.004 
PMID: 17825436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Oct;30(10):520-6. Epub 2007 Sep 6.

Neuronal temporal identity in post-embryonic Drosophila brain.

Yu HH(1), Lee T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, MA 01605, USA.

Understanding how a vast number of neuron types derive from a limited number of
neural progenitors remains a major challenge in developmental neurobiology. In
the post-embryonic Drosophila brain, specific neuron types derive from specific
progenitors at specific times. This suggests involvement of time-dependent cell
fate determinants acting as 'temporal codes' along with lineage cues to specify
neuronal cell fates. Interestingly, such temporal codes might be provided not
only by several regulators acting in sequence, but also by the differential
protein levels of the BTB-zinc finger nuclear protein Chinmo. Identifying
temporal codes and determining their origins should allow us to elucidate how
neuronal diversification occurs through protracted neurogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.07.003 
PMID: 17825435  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Sep;30(9):433-9. Epub 2007 Aug 31.

How can we improve the pre-clinical development of drugs for stroke?

Sena E(1), van der Worp HB, Howells D, Macleod M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Edinburgh, UK.

The development of stroke drugs has been characterized by success in animal
studies and subsequent failure in clinical trials. Animal studies might have
overstated efficacy, or clinical trials might have understated efficacy; in
either case we need to better understand the reasons for failure. Techniques
borrowed from clinical trials have recently allowed the impact of publication and
study-quality biases on published estimates of efficacy in animal experiments to 
be described. On the basis of these data, we propose minimum standards for the
range and quality of pre-clinical animal data. We believe the adoption of these
standards will lead to improved effectiveness and efficiency in the selection of 
drugs for clinical trials in stroke and in the design of those trials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.009 
PMID: 17765332  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Sep;30(9):473-8. Epub 2007 Aug 31.

Neuronal damage accompanies perinatal white-matter damage.

Leviton A(1), Gressens P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Children's Hospital Boston, Boston, MA, USA.
alan.leviton@childrens.harvard.edu

Extremely low-gestational-age newborns have a prominently increased risk of brain
dysfunctions attributed to white-matter damage, which is thought to result from
the vulnerability of the oligodendrocyte. This white-matter damage now appears to
be accompanied by cerebral-cortex and deep-gray-matter abnormalities, including
excess apoptosis without replacement and the impairment of surviving neurons and 
resulting interference with synaptogenesis and connectivity. Recent advances in
corticogenesis suggest that neurons migrate from the germinative zones through
the white matter to the cortex when the white matter is most vulnerable and
perhaps is being injured. Advances in developmental neuroscience also suggest
that the excitotoxic and inflammatory processes that probably contribute to
white-matter damage are also able to damage developing neurons. Together, these
advances support the untested hypothesis that white-matter damage in the preterm 
newborn is accompanied by the death of neurons as they migrate through the
dangerous minefield of white matter undergoing injury.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.05.009 
PMID: 17765331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Sep;30(9):456-63. Epub 2007 Aug 31.

Dendritic mechanisms controlling spike-timing-dependent synaptic plasticity.

Kampa BM(1), Letzkus JJ, Stuart GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, University of Zürich, Winterthurerstr. 190, 8057
Zürich, Switzerland. kampa@hifo.unizh.ch

The ability of neurons to modulate the strength of their synaptic connections has
been shown to depend on the relative timing of pre- and postsynaptic action
potentials. This form of synaptic plasticity, called spike-timing-dependent
plasticity (STDP), has become an attractive model for learning at the single-cell
level. Yet, despite its popularity in experimental and theoretical neuroscience, 
the influence of dendritic mechanisms in the induction of STDP has been largely
overlooked. Several recent studies have investigated how active dendritic
properties and synapse location within the dendritic tree influence STDP. These
studies suggest the existence of learning rules that depend on firing mode and
subcellular input location, adding unanticipated complexity to STDP. Here, we
propose a new look at STDP that is focused on processing at the postsynaptic site
in the dendrites, rather than on spike-timing at the cell body.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.010 
PMID: 17765330  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


721. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Sep;30(9):464-72. Epub 2007 Aug 31.

Exercise builds brain health: key roles of growth factor cascades and
inflammation.

Cotman CW(1), Berchtold NC, Christie LA.

Author information: 
(1)University of California, Irvine Institute for Brain Aging and Dementia, 1113 
Gillespie Building, Irvine, CA 92617-4540, USA. cwcotman@uci.edu

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci. 2007 Oct;30(10):489.

Human and other animal studies demonstrate that exercise targets many aspects of 
brain function and has broad effects on overall brain health. The benefits of
exercise have been best defined for learning and memory, protection from
neurodegeneration and alleviation of depression, particularly in elderly
populations. Exercise increases synaptic plasticity by directly affecting
synaptic structure and potentiating synaptic strength, and by strengthening the
underlying systems that support plasticity including neurogenesis, metabolism and
vascular function. Such exercise-induced structural and functional change has
been documented in various brain regions but has been best-studied in the
hippocampus - the focus of this review. A key mechanism mediating these broad
benefits of exercise on the brain is induction of central and peripheral growth
factors and growth factor cascades, which instruct downstream structural and
functional change. In addition, exercise reduces peripheral risk factors such as 
diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease, which converge to cause brain 
dysfunction and neurodegeneration. A common mechanism underlying the central and 
peripheral effects of exercise might be related to inflammation, which can impair
growth factor signaling both systemically and in the brain. Thus, through
regulation of growth factors and reduction of peripheral and central risk
factors, exercise ensures successful brain function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.011 
PMID: 17765329  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Sep;30(9):447-55. Epub 2007 Aug 31.

The debate on the kiss-and-run fusion at synapses.

He L(1), Wu LG.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, 35 Convent Drive,
Bldg 35, Rm. 2B-1012, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

It has long been proposed that following vesicle fusion, a small pore might open 
and close rapidly without full dilation. Such 'kiss-and-run' vesicle fusion can
in principle result in rapid vesicle recycling and influence the size and the
kinetics of the resulting synaptic current. However, the existence of
kiss-and-run remains highly controversial, as revealed by recent imaging and
electrophysiological studies at several synapses, including hippocampal synapses,
neuromuscular junctions and retinal bipolar synapses. Only a minor fraction of
fusion events has been shown to be kiss-and-run, as determined using
cell-attached capacitance recordings in endocrine cells, pituitary nerve
terminals and calyx-type synapses. Further work is needed to determine whether
kiss-and-run is a major mode of fusion and has a major role in controlling
synaptic strength at synapses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.012 
PMID: 17765328  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Sep;30(9):479-87. Epub 2007 Aug 31.

Cajal's contributions to glia research.

García-Marín V(1), García-López P, Freire M.

Author information: 
(1)Museum Ramón y Cajal, Instituto Cajal, CSIC Avda. Doctor Arce 37, Madrid
28002, Spain. vgmarin@cajal.csic.es

In 1906, Santiago Ramón y Cajal was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or
Medicine in recognition of his work on the structure of neurons and their
connections. What is less well known is that he also had a keen interest in glia 
and developed specific staining methods for their study. In addition to
describing their morphology, he speculated on a role for glia in sleep and
wakefulness and even in executive brain functions such as attention. In this
article, we focus on Cajal's histological research into glial cells; this
research includes original drawings of astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, microglia
and radial glia, as well as his scientific writings. We aim to show that,
concerning glia as well as neurons, Cajal was far ahead of his time.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.008 
PMID: 17765327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Sep;30(9):440-6. Epub 2007 Aug 10.

Functional relevance of neurotransmitter receptor heteromers in the central
nervous system.

Ferré S(1), Ciruela F, Woods AS, Lluis C, Franco R.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral Neuroscience Branch, National Institute on Drug Abuse, Intramural
Research Program, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human
Services, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. sferre@intra.nida.nih.gov

The existence of neurotransmitter receptor heteromers is becoming broadly
accepted and their functional significance is being revealed. Heteromerization of
neurotransmitter receptors produces functional entities that possess different
biochemical characteristics with respect to the individual components of the
heteromer. Neurotransmitter receptor heteromers can function as processors of
computations that modulate cell signaling. Thus, the quantitative or qualitative 
aspects of the signaling generated by stimulation of any of the individual
receptor units in the heteromer are different from those obtained during
coactivation. Furthermore, recent studies demonstrate that some neurotransmitter 
receptor heteromers can exert an effect as processors of computations that
directly modulate both pre- and postsynaptic neurotransmission. This is
illustrated by the analysis of striatal receptor heteromers that control striatal
glutamatergic neurotransmission.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.07.001 
PMID: 17692396  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Aug;30(8):417-24. Epub 2007 Jul 12.

Glia: they make your memories stick!

Bains JS(1), Oliet SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology & Biophysics, Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University
of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

Synaptic plasticity underlies higher brain functions such as learning and memory.
At glutamatergic synapses in the vertebrate central nervous system, plasticity
usually requires changes in the number of postsynaptic AMPA receptors. Recently, 
several studies have revealed that glial cells play an important role in
regulating postsynaptic AMPA receptor density. This is accomplished through the
release of gliotransmitters such as D-serine, ATP and TNF-alpha. More
specifically, the availability of D-serine, the endogenous co-agonist of
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in many brain areas, governs the induction of
long-term potentiation and long-term depression. Meanwhile, ATP and TNF-alpha
trigger long-lasting increases in synaptic strength at glutamatergic hypothalamic
and hippocampal inputs, respectively, through mechanisms that promote AMPA
receptor insertion in the absence of coincident presynaptic and postsynaptic
activity. These data clearly demonstrate a vital role for glia in plasticity and 
argue that their contributions to brain function extend well beyond their
outdated role as cellular 'glue'.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.007 
PMID: 17631972  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Aug;30(8):399-406. Epub 2007 Jul 16.

A key role for corticotropin-releasing factor in alcohol dependence.

Heilig M(1), Koob GF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Clinical and Translational Studies, National Institute of
Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA), NIH, 10 Center Dr., 1/5334, Bethesda, MD
20892, USA. markus.heilig@mail.nih.gov

Recent data indicate that alcohol dependence induces long-term neuroadaptations
that recruit a negative emotional state. This leads to excessive alcohol
ingestion motivated by relief of negative emotionality. A key mechanism in this
transition to negative reinforcement is a recruitment of corticotropin-releasing 
factor (CRF) signaling within the amygdala. Long term upregulation of CRF(1)
receptors is observed in the amygdala following a history of dependence, and CRF 
antagonists selectively block emotionality, excessive alcohol drinking and
stress-induced reinstatement of alcohol-seeking in post-dependent animals. Innate
upregulation of CRF(1) receptor expression mimics the post-dependent phenotype,
both with regard to emotional responses and ethanol self-administration.
Therefore, the CRF system is emerging as a key element of the neuroadaptive
changes driving alcoholism and as a major target for its treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.006 
PMCID: PMC2747092
PMID: 17629579  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Aug;30(8):407-16. Epub 2007 Jul 16.

Molecular determinants of AMPA receptor subunit assembly.

Greger IH(1), Ziff EB, Penn AC.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Neurobiology Division, Cambridge CB2 2QH,
UK. ig@mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk

AMPA-type (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate) glutamate
receptors (AMPARs) mediate post-synaptic depolarization and fast excitatory
transmission in the central nervous system. AMPARs are tetrameric ion channels
that assemble in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in a poorly understood process.
The subunit composition determines channel conductance properties and gating
kinetics, and also regulates vesicular traffic to and from synaptic sites, and is
thus critical for synaptic function and plasticity. The distribution of
functionally different AMPARs varies within and between neuronal circuits, and
even within individual neurons. In addition, synapses employ channels with
specific subunit stoichiometries, depending on the type of input and the
frequency of stimulation. Taken together, it appears that assembly is not simply 
a stochastic process. Recently, progress has been made in understanding the
molecular mechanisms underlying subunit assembly and receptor biogenesis in the
ER. These processes ultimately determine the size and shape of the postsynaptic
response, and are the subject of this review.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.005 
PMID: 17629578  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Aug;30(8):375-81. Epub 2007 Jun 29.

Is dopamine a physiologically relevant mediator of feeding behavior?

Palmiter RD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biochemistry, University of
Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7370, USA. palmiter@u.washington.edu

The hypothalamus integrates various hormonal and neuronal signals to regulate
appetite and metabolism and thereby serves a homeostatic purpose in the
regulation of body weight. Additional neural circuits that are superimposed on
this system have the potential to override the homeostatic signals, resulting in 
either gluttony or anorexia at the extremes. Midbrain dopamine neurons have long 
been implicated in mediating reward behavior and the motivational aspects of
feeding behavior. Recent results reveal that hormones implicated in regulating
the homeostatic system also impinge directly on dopamine neurons; for example,
leptin and insulin directly inhibit dopamine neurons, whereas ghrelin activates
them. Here, I discuss the predictions and implications of these new findings as
they relate to dopamine signaling and the physiology of appetite control.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.004 
PMID: 17604133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Aug;30(8):382-9. Epub 2007 Jun 27.

Refining the roles of GABAergic signaling during neural circuit formation.

Akerman CJ(1), Cline HT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Mansfield Road, Oxford, UK, 
OX1 3QT.

Our understanding of the role of GABA signaling in circuit development is rapidly
expanding. Here, we review three recent refinements in our understanding of the
diverse roles that GABA plays at different stages of neural circuit formation.
First, we discuss recent evidence that depolarizing GABA plays at least a
permissive role in promoting both excitatory and inhibitory synaptogenesis in
developing neurons (including newly generated neurons in the adult). Next, we
discuss recent evidence that GABAergic circuits sculpt the temporal and spatial
aspects of synaptic integration. Consequently, early developmental events
affecting the establishment of GABAergic circuits will control subsequent
activity-dependent refinements of information processing and circuit function. In
the third section, we review recent evidence of molecular mechanisms by which
GABAergic signaling plays a role in the regulation of the balance between
GABAergic and glutamatergic transmission in developing circuits. Throughout the
review, we concentrate on the effects of the signaling by GABA(A) receptors, as
told from the point of view of the GABA-responsive cells, and do not discuss
mechanisms that govern GABA release or activity of GABAergic neurons per se.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.002 
PMID: 17590449  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Aug;30(8):425-31. Epub 2007 Jun 27.

The GABAA receptor: a novel target for treatment of fragile X?

D'Hulst C(1), Kooy RF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1,
2610 Antwerp, Belgium. Frank.Kooy@ua.ac.be

GABA(A) receptors are the major inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors in the
mammalian brain, implicated in anxiety, depression, epilepsy, insomnia, and
learning and memory. Here, we present several lines of evidence for involvement
of the GABAergic system, and in particular the GABA(A) receptor-mediated
function, in fragile X syndrome, the most common form of inherited mental
retardation. We argue that an altered expression of the GABA(A) receptor has
neurophysiologic and functional consequences that might relate to the behavioural
and neurological phenotype associated with fragile X syndrome. Interestingly,
some neuropsychiatric disorders, such as anxiety, epilepsy and sleep disorders,
are effectively treated with therapeutic agents that act on the GABA(A) receptor.
Therefore, the GABA(A) receptor might be a novel therapeutic target for fragile X
syndrome.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.003 
PMID: 17590448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Aug;30(8):390-8. Epub 2007 Jun 27.

Differences in O2 availability resolve the apparent discrepancies in metabolic
intrinsic optical signals in vivo and in vitro.

Turner DA(1), Foster KA, Galeffi F, Somjen GG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA. 
dennis.turner@duke.edu

Monitoring changes in the fluorescence of metabolic chromophores, reduced
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide and flavin adenine dinucleotide, and the
absorption of cytochromes, is useful to study neuronal activation and
mitochondrial metabolism in the brain. However, these optical signals evoked by
stimulation, seizures and spreading depression in intact brain differ from those 
observed in vitro. The responses in vivo consist of a persistent oxidized state
during neuronal activity followed by mild reduction during recovery. In vitro,
however, brief oxidation is followed by prolonged and heightened reduction, even 
during persistent neuronal activation. In normally perfused, oxygenated and
activated brain tissue in vivo, partial pressure of oxygen (P(O2)) levels often
undergo a brief 'dip' that is always followed by an overshoot above baseline, due
to increased blood flow (neuronal-vascular coupling). By contrast, in the absence
of blood circulation, tissue P(O2)in vitro decreases more markedly and recovers
slowly to baseline without overshooting. Although oxygen is abundant in vivo, it 
is diffusion-limited in vitro. The disparities in mitochondrial and tissue oxygen
availability account for the different redox responses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.06.001 
PMCID: PMC3340602
PMID: 17590447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jul;30(7):365-73. Epub 2007 Jun 7.

Analysis of dynamic brain oscillations: methodological advances.

Le Van Quyen M(1), Bragin A.

Author information: 
(1)LENA-CNRS UPR640, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Hôpital de la Salpêtrière,
75651 Paris Cedex 13, France. lenalm@ext.jussieu.fr

In recent years, new recording technologies have advanced such that, at high
temporal and spatial resolutions, oscillations of neuronal networks can be
identified from simultaneous, multisite recordings. However, because of the
deluge of multichannel data generated by these experiments, achieving the full
potential of parallel neuronal recordings also depends on the development of new 
mathematical methods that can extract meaningful information relating to time,
frequency and space. Here, we aim to bridge this gap by focusing on up-to-date
recording techniques for measurement of network oscillations and new analysis
tools for their quantitative assessment. In particular, we emphasize how these
methods can be applied, what property might be inferred from neuronal signals and
potentially productive future directions. This review is part of the INMED and
TINS special issue, Physiogenic and pathogenic oscillations: the beauty and the
beast, derived from presentations at the annual INMED and TINS symposium
(http://inmednet.com).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.05.006 
PMID: 17559951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jul;30(7):309-16. Epub 2007 Jun 6.

The gamma cycle.

Fries P(1), Nikolić D, Singer W.

Author information: 
(1)F.C. Donders Centre for Cognitive Neuroimaging, Radboud University Nijmegen,
6525 EN Nijmegen, the Netherlands. pascal.fries@fcdonders.ru.nl

Activated neuronal groups typically engage in rhythmic synchronization in the
gamma-frequency range (30-100 Hz). Experimental and modeling studies demonstrate 
that each gamma cycle is framed by synchronized spiking of inhibitory
interneurons. Here, we review evidence suggesting that the resulting rhythmic
network inhibition interacts with excitatory input to pyramidal cells such that
the more excited cells fire earlier in the gamma cycle. Thus, the amplitude of
excitatory drive is recoded into phase values of discharges relative to the gamma
cycle. This recoding enables transmission and read out of amplitude information
within a single gamma cycle without requiring rate integration. Furthermore,
variation of phase relations can be exploited to facilitate or inhibit exchange
of information between oscillating cell assemblies. The gamma cycle could thus
serve as a fundamental computational mechanism for the implementation of a
temporal coding scheme that enables fast processing and flexible routing of
activity, supporting fast selection and binding of distributed responses. This
review is part of the INMED/TINS special issue Physiogenic and pathogenic
oscillations: the beauty and the beast, based on presentations at the annual
INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.05.005 
PMID: 17555828  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jul;30(7):350-6. Epub 2007 Jun 4.

Thalamic synchrony and dynamic regulation of global forebrain oscillations.

Huguenard JR(1), McCormick DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Room M016 Medical Center,
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
John.Huguenard@Stanford.Edu

The circuitry within the thalamus creates an intrinsic oscillatory unit whose
function depends critically on reciprocal synaptic connectivity between
excitatory thalamocortical relay neurons and inhibitory thalamic reticular
neurons along with a robust post-inhibitory rebound mechanism in relay neurons.
Feedforward and feedback connections between cortex and thalamus reinforce the
thalamic oscillatory activity into larger thalamocortical networks to generate
sleep spindles and spike-wave discharge of generalized absence epilepsy. The
degree of synchrony within the thalamic network seems to be crucial in
determining whether normal (spindle) or pathological (spike-wave) oscillations
occur, and recent studies show that regulation of excitability in the reticular
nucleus leads to dynamical modulation of the state of the thalamic circuit and
provide a basis for explaining how a variety of unrelated genetic alterations
might lead to the spike-wave phenotype. In addition, given the central role of
the reticular nucleus in generating spike-wave discharge, these studies have
suggested specific interventions that would prevent seizures while still allowing
normal spindle generation to occur. This review is part of the INMED/TINS special
issue Physiogenic and pathogenic oscillations: the beauty and the beast, based on
presentations at the annual INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.05.007 
PMID: 17544519  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jul;30(7):325-33. Epub 2007 May 29.

Network and intrinsic cellular mechanisms underlying theta phase precession of
hippocampal neurons.

Maurer AP(1), McNaughton BL.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neural Systems, Memory and Aging, University of Arizona, Tucson,
AZ 85724, USA.

Hippocampal 'place cells' systematically shift their phase of firing in relation 
to the theta rhythm as an animal traverses the 'place field'. These dynamics
imply that the neural ensemble begins each theta cycle at a point in its
state-space that might 'represent' the current location of the rat, but that the 
ensemble 'looks ahead' during the rest of the cycle. Phase precession could
result from intrinsic cellular dynamics involving interference of two oscillators
of different frequencies, or from network interactions, similar to Hebb's 'phase 
sequence' concept, involving asymmetric synaptic connections. Both models have
difficulties accounting for all of the available experimental data, however. A
hybrid model, in which the look-ahead phenomenon implied by phase precession
originates in superficial entorhinal cortex by some form of interference
mechanism and is enhanced in the hippocampus proper by asymmetric synaptic
plasticity during sequence encoding, seems to be consistent with available data, 
but as yet there is no fully satisfactory theoretical account of this phenomenon.
This review is part of the INMED/TINS special issue Physiogenic and pathogenic
oscillations: the beauty and the beast, based on presentations at the annual
INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.05.002 
PMID: 17532482  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jul;30(7):357-64. Epub 2007 May 25.

Pathological synchronization in Parkinson's disease: networks, models and
treatments.

Hammond C(1), Bergman H, Brown P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Neurobiologie de la Méditerranée, U29 Inserm, Université
Aix-Marseille II and UMR CNRS 5543, Université Bordeaux 2, France.

Parkinson's disease is a common and disabling disorder of movement owing to
dopaminergic denervation of the striatum. However, it is still unclear how this
denervation perverts normal functioning to cause slowing of voluntary movements. 
Recent work using tissue slice preparations, animal models and in humans with
Parkinson's disease has demonstrated abnormally synchronized oscillatory activity
at multiple levels of the basal ganglia-cortical loop. This excessive
synchronization correlates with motor deficit, and its suppression by
dopaminergic therapies, ablative surgery or deep-brain stimulation might provide 
the basic mechanism whereby diverse therapeutic strategies ameliorate motor
impairment in patients with Parkinson's disease. This review is part of the
INMED/TINS special issue, Physiogenic and pathogenic oscillations: the beauty and
the beast, based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS symposium
(http://inmednet.com/).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.05.004 
PMID: 17532060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jul;30(7):343-9. Epub 2007 May 25.

Role of GABAergic inhibition in hippocampal network oscillations.

Mann EO(1), Paulsen O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 3PT,
UK.

Physiological rhythmic activity in cortical circuits relies on GABAergic
inhibition to balance excitation and control spike timing. With a focus on recent
experimental progress in the hippocampus, here we review the mechanisms by which 
synaptic inhibition can control the precise timing of spike generation, by way of
effects of GABAergic events on membrane conductance ('shunting' inhibition) and
membrane potential ('hyperpolarizing' inhibition). Synaptic inhibition itself can
be synchronized by way of interactions within networks of GABAergic neurons, and 
by excitatory neurons. The importance of GABAergic mechanisms for generation of
cortical rhythms is now well established. What remains to be resolved is how such
inhibitory control of spike timing can be harnessed for long-range fast
synchronization, and the relevance of these mechanisms to network function. This 
review is part of the INMED/TINS special issue Physiogenic and pathogenic
oscillations: the beauty and the beast, based on presentations at the annual
INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.05.003 
PMID: 17532059  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jul;30(7):317-24. Epub 2007 May 17.

Human gamma-frequency oscillations associated with attention and memory.

Jensen O(1), Kaiser J, Lachaux JP.

Author information: 
(1)F.C. Donders Centre for Cognitive Neuroimaging, Kapittelweg 29, 6525 EN
Nijmegen, the Netherlands.

Both theoretical and experimental animal work supports the hypothesis that
transient oscillatory synchronization of neuronal assemblies at gamma frequencies
(30-100 Hz) is closely associated with sensory processing. Recent data from
recordings in animals and humans have suggested that gamma-frequency activity
also has an important role in attention and both working and long-term memory.
The involvement of gamma-band synchronization in various cognitive paradigms in
humans is currently being investigated using intracranial and high-density
electro- and magnetoencephalography recordings. Here, we discuss recent findings 
demonstrating human gamma-frequency activity associated with attention and memory
in both sensory and non-sensory areas. Because oscillatory gamma-frequency
activity has an important role in neuronal communication and synaptic plasticity,
it could provide a key for understanding neuronal processing in both local and
distributed cortical networks engaged in complex cognitive functions. This review
is part of the INMED/TINS special issue Physiogenic and pathogenic oscillations: 
the beauty and the beast, based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS
symposium (http://inmednet.com).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.05.001 
PMID: 17499860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jul;30(7):334-42. Epub 2007 May 3.

Are corticothalamic 'up' states fragments of wakefulness?

Destexhe A(1), Hughes SW, Rudolph M, Crunelli V.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS, Integrative and Computational Neuroscience Unit 1, Avenue de la
Terrasse, Gif sur Yvette Cedex 91198, France.

The slow (<1 Hz) oscillation, with its alternating 'up' and 'down' states in
individual neurons, is a defining feature of the electroencephalogram (EEG)
during slow-wave sleep (SWS). Although this oscillation is well preserved across 
mammalian species, its physiological role is unclear. Electrophysiological and
computational evidence from the cortex and thalamus now indicates that
slow-oscillation 'up' states and the 'activated' state of wakefulness are
remarkably similar dynamic entities. This is consistent with behavioural
experiments suggesting that slow-oscillation 'up' states provide a context for
the replay, and possible consolidation, of previous experience. In this scenario,
the T-type Ca(2+) channel-dependent bursts of action potentials that initiate
each 'up' state in thalamocortical (TC) neurons might function as triggers for
synaptic and cellular plasticity in corticothalamic networks. This review is part
of the INMED/TINS special issue Physiogenic and pathogenic oscillations: the
beauty and the beast, based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS symposium
(http://inmednet.com).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.04.006 
PMCID: PMC3005711
PMID: 17481741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jun;30(6):292-8. Epub 2007 Apr 27.

Share and share alike: trading of presynaptic elements between central synapses.

Staras K(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory for Molecular Cell Biology and Cell Biology Unit, University
College London, London, UK. k.staras@ucl.ac.uk

Central presynaptic terminals harbour synaptic vesicles (SVs) and
synapse-specific proteins necessary for neurotransmission. Classically, these
elements were thought to reside more or less stably at individual mature
synapses, giving rise to the idea that each terminal was essentially an
independent functional unit. However, emerging evidence from fluorescence imaging
studies in hippocampal cultured neurons is now challenging this view, suggesting 
that neighbouring synapses along axons share vesicles, and also other synaptic
elements, at high levels. This raises the possibility that control of import and 
export might be an important regulatory target for the maintenance of release
sites, modulation of synaptic efficacy and formation of new synaptic contacts.
Here, temporal synaptic stability and the functional consequences for presynaptic
operation will be considered.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.04.005 
PMID: 17467066  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jun;30(6):268-75. Epub 2007 Apr 27.

Wnts: up-and-coming at the synapse.

Speese SD(1), Budnik V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Aaron Lazare Biomedical Research Building,
University of Massachusetts Medical School, 364 Plantation Street, Worcester, MA 
01601, USA.

Synaptic development, function and plasticity are highly regulated processes
requiring a precise coordination of pre- and postsynaptic events. Recent studies 
have begun to highlight Wingless-Int (Wnt) signaling as a key player in synapse
differentiation and function. Emerging roles of Wnts include the differentiation 
of synaptic specializations, microtubule dynamics, architecture of synaptic
protein organization, modulation of synaptic efficacy and regulation of gene
expression. These processes are driven by a variety of Wnt transduction pathways.
Combined with a myriad of Wnts and Frizzled receptor family members, these
pathways highlight the versatility of Wnt signaling and the potential for
combinatorial use of these pathways in different aspects of synapse development
and function. The identification of neurons secreting Wnt and those containing
molecular components downstream of Frizzled receptors indicates that Wnts can
function both as anterograde and retrograde signals. These studies open new
avenues for understanding how embryonic morphogens are utilized during the
development and function of synaptic networks.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.04.003 
PMCID: PMC3499976
PMID: 17467065  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jun;30(6):251-9. Epub 2007 Apr 25.

The topographic brain: from neural connectivity to cognition.

Thivierge JP(1), Marcus GF.

Author information: 
(1)Département de Physiologie, Université de Montréal, C.P.6128 Succ.
Centre-ville, Montréal, Québec, Canada. jean-philippe.thivierge@umontreal.ca

A hallmark feature of vertebrate brain organization is ordered topography,
wherein sets of neuronal connections preserve the relative organization of cells 
between two regions. Although topography is often found in projections from
peripheral sense organs to the brain, it also seems to participate in the
anatomical and functional organization of higher brain centers, for reasons that 
are poorly understood. We propose that a key function of topography might be to
provide computational underpinnings for precise one-to-one correspondences
between abstract cognitive representations. This perspective offers a novel
conceptualization of how the brain approaches difficult problems, such as
reasoning and analogy making, and suggests that a broader understanding of
topographic maps could be pivotal in fostering strong links between genetics,
neurophysiology and cognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.04.004 
PMID: 17462748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jun;30(6):276-83. Epub 2007 Apr 8.

The centrosome in neuronal development.

Higginbotham HR(1), Gleeson JG.

Author information: 
(1)Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program, Department of Neurosciences, University 
of California, LBR 3A16, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.

Establishment of polarity is an essential process during proliferation, migration
and differentiation in neurons, and the signaling pathways leading to
polarization of the cytoskeleton are topics of intense research. One key marker
for cell polarity is the centrosome, also known as the microtubule-organizing
center. Recent discoveries have shown that the position of the centrosome is
precisely regulated during neurogenesis, migration and differentiation, leading
to the segregation of cell fate factors, efficient nucleokinesis and directed
neurite outgrowth, respectively. Here, we review recent advances in the
understanding of this interesting organelle and propose a model whereby
centrosome position, determined by extracellular factors, directs multiple
aspects of neuronal development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.04.001 
PMID: 17420058  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jun;30(6):299-306. Epub 2007 Apr 8.

Leading tonically active neurons of the striatum from reward detection to context
recognition.

Apicella P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie de la Cognition, Université de Provence-CNRS, 3
place Victor Hugo, 13331 Marseille Cedex 3, France. paul.apicella@up.univ.mrs

Tonically active neurons (TANs) in the primate striatum, which are presumed to be
cholinergic interneurons, carry signals that are traditionally considered to be
important for reward-related learning. Recent studies investigating the
functional properties of TANs in behaving monkeys have shown that other factors
beyond motivation can affect their responsiveness. There is now evidence that TAN
responses reflect stimulus detection, movement control and recognition of a
specific context, suggesting that these local circuit neurons contribute to
different computations used in learning and action functions of the striatum.
This is consistent with the view that TAN responses could represent an important 
component of the processes that are responsible for the ability to select the
appropriate behavioral response to environmental events.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.011 
PMID: 17420057  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jun;30(6):260-7. Epub 2007 Apr 6.

The topological role of homeoproteins in the developing central nervous system.

Brunet I(1), Di Nardo AA, Sonnier L, Beurdeley M, Prochiantz A.

Author information: 
(1)Unité Mixte de Recherche 8542, Development and Evolution of the Nervous System
(Development and Neuropharmacology Group), Ecole normale supérieure, 46 rue
d'Ulm, 75005 Paris, France.

Homeogenes encode homeoprotein transcription factors that have fundamental roles 
in development. They are key players in genetic networks that lay out the body
plan and also determine morphology and physiology at the cellular and
multicellular level. However, homeoproteins share activities that extend beyond
transcription, including translation regulation and signalling. For example,
homeoproteins participate in the definition of territories in the neuroepithelium
and also have a function in axonal guidance. Based on these examples, we propose 
that homeoproteins are not only morphogenetic transcription factors, but also
morphogens themselves.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.010 
PMID: 17418905  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jun;30(6):284-91. Epub 2007 Apr 6.

NMDA and AMPA receptors: old channels, new tricks.

Rao VR(1), Finkbeiner S.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, 1650 Owens Street, San Francisco,
CA 94158, USA.

Learning and memory depend on persistent changes in synaptic strength that
require neuronal gene expression. An unresolved question concerns the mechanisms 
by which activity at synapses is transduced into a nuclear transcriptional
response. In the prevailing view, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)- and
alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate
receptors have distinct roles in controlling synaptic strength: AMPA receptors
effect short-term changes in synaptic strength, whereas NMDA receptors regulate
genes that are required for the long-term maintenance of these changes. Here, we 
review recent data on the roles of these two types of receptor in
activity-dependent gene expression. We discuss evidence that signals from NMDA
receptors and AMPA receptors are integrated to specify transcriptional responses 
for particular plasticity related genes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.012 
PMID: 17418904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Trends Neurosci. 2007 May;30(5):244-50. Epub 2007 Apr 5.

Multiple hit hypotheses for dopamine neuron loss in Parkinson's disease.

Sulzer D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Black 309, 650 West, 168th Street, Columbia
University, New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York City, NY 10032, USA.
ds43@columbia.edu

Parkinson's disease arises from genetic and possibly neurotoxic causes that
produce massive cell death of the neuromelanin-containing dopaminergic neurons of
the substantia nigra. Loss of these neurons is essential for the diagnostic
parkinsonian features. Although many genetic mutations have been suggested as
causes or risk factors for Parkinson's disease, the low penetrance of some
mutations and the low disease concordance in relatives suggests that there must
be interactions between multiple factors. We suggest that 'multiple hits' that
combine toxic stress, for example, from dopamine oxidation or mitochondrial
dysfunction, with an inhibition of a neuroprotective response, such as loss of
function of parkin or stress-induced autophagic degradation, underlie selective
neuronal death. We discuss the properties of substantia nigra dopamine neurons
that might make them particular targets of such multiple hits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.009 
PMID: 17418429  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Trends Neurosci. 2007 May;30(5):194-202. Epub 2007 Apr 3.

Dopamine neuron systems in the brain: an update.

Björklund A(1), Dunnett SB.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Unit, Wallenberg Neuroscience Center, Department of Experimental 
Medical Science, Lund University, Lund SE-22184, Sweden.
anders.bjorklund@med.lu.se

The basic organization of the catecholamine-containing neuronal systems and their
axonal projections in the brain was initially worked out using classical
histofluorescence techniques during the 1960s and 1970s. The introduction of more
versatile immunohistochemical methods, along with a range of highly sensitive
tract-tracing techniques, has provided a progressively more detailed picture,
making the dopamine system one of the best known, and most completely mapped,
neurotransmitter systems in the brain. The purpose of the present review is to
summarize our current knowledge of the diversity and neurochemical features of
the nine dopamine-containing neuronal cell groups in the mammalian brain, their
distinctive cellular properties, and their ability to regulate their dopaminergic
transmitter machinery in response to altered functional demands and aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.006 
PMID: 17408759  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Trends Neurosci. 2007 May;30(5):228-35. Epub 2007 Apr 3.

D1 and D2 dopamine-receptor modulation of striatal glutamatergic signaling in
striatal medium spiny neurons.

Surmeier DJ(1), Ding J, Day M, Wang Z, Shen W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern
University, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. j-surmeier@northwestern.edu <j-

Dopamine shapes a wide variety of psychomotor functions. This is mainly
accomplished by modulating cortical and thalamic glutamatergic signals impinging 
upon principal medium spiny neurons (MSNs) of the striatum. Several lines of
evidence suggest that dopamine D1 receptor signaling enhances dendritic
excitability and glutamatergic signaling in striatonigral MSNs, whereas D2
receptor signaling exerts the opposite effect in striatopallidal MSNs. The
functional antagonism between these two major striatal dopamine receptors extends
to the regulation of synaptic plasticity. Recent studies, using transgenic mice
in which cells express D1 and D2 receptors, have uncovered unappreciated
differences between MSNs that shape glutamatergic signaling and the influence of 
DA on synaptic plasticity. These studies have also shown that long-term
alterations in dopamine signaling produce profound and cell-type-specific
reshaping of corticostriatal connectivity and function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.008 
PMID: 17408758  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Trends Neurosci. 2007 May;30(5):203-10. Epub 2007 Apr 2.

Behavioral dopamine signals.

Schultz W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, UK. ws234@cam.ac.uk

Lesioning and psychopharmacological studies suggest a wide range of behavioral
functions for ascending midbrain dopaminergic systems. However,
electrophysiological and neurochemical studies during specific behavioral tasks
demonstrate a more restricted spectrum of dopamine-mediated changes. Substantial 
increases in dopamine-mediated activity, as measured by electrophysiology or
voltammetry, are related to rewards and reward-predicting stimuli. A somewhat
slower, distinct electrophysiological response encodes the uncertainty associated
with rewards. Aversive events produce different, mostly slower,
electrophysiological dopamine responses that consist predominantly of
depressions. Additionally, more modest dopamine concentration fluctuations,
related to punishment and movement, are seen at 200-18,000 times longer time
courses using voltammetry and microdialysis in vivo. Using these responses,
dopamine neurotransmission provides differential and heterogeneous information to
subcortical and cortical brain structures about essential outcome components for 
approach behavior, learning and economic decision-making.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.007 
PMID: 17400301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Trends Neurosci. 2007 May;30(5):236-43. Epub 2007 Apr 2.

Dopamine dysregulation of movement control in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia.

Cenci MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Basal Ganglia Pathophysiology Unit, Department of Experimental Medical
Science, Lund University, BMC F11, S.221 84 Lund, Sweden.
Angela.Cenci_Nilsson@med.lu.se

The nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system has an essential role in the selection and
control of movement sequences, and its degeneration causes the characteristic
motor symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Parkinsonian motor symptoms are alleviated
by L-DOPA, but this treatment induces motor fluctuations and dyskinesias
(abnormal involuntary movements). Clinical and experimental findings indicate
that the motor complications of L-DOPA pharmacotherapy are triggered by transient
and large changes in extracellular DA levels. The disruption of presynaptic DA
homeostasis sets in motion a cascade of postsynaptic alterations, which prime the
brain for a complicated motor response to dopaminomimetic treatment.
L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia provides a paradigm to study how the dysregulation of
DA release and clearance results in maladaptive neuroplasticity sustaining
abnormal patterns of movement.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.005 
PMID: 17400300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Trends Neurosci. 2007 May;30(5):220-7. Epub 2007 Apr 2.

Regulation of firing of dopaminergic neurons and control of goal-directed
behaviors.

Grace AA(1), Floresco SB, Goto Y, Lodge DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neuroscience, Psychiatry and Psychology, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA. Grace@bns.pitt.edu

There are several brain regions that have been implicated in the control of
motivated behavior and whose disruption leads to the pathophysiology observed in 
major psychiatric disorders. These systems include the ventral hippocampus, which
is involved in context and focus on tasks, the amygdala, which mediates emotional
behavior, and the prefrontal cortex, which modulates activity throughout the
limbic system to enable behavioral flexibility. Each of these systems has
overlapping projections to the nucleus accumbens, where these inputs are
integrated under the modulatory influence of dopamine. Here, we provide a
systems-oriented approach to interpreting the function of the dopamine system,
its modulation of limbic-cortical interactions and how disruptions within this
system might underlie the pathophysiology of schizophrenia and drug abuse.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.003 
PMID: 17400299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Trends Neurosci. 2007 May;30(5):185-7. Epub 2007 Mar 29.

Fifty years of dopamine research.

Björklund A, Dunnett SB.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.004 
PMID: 17397938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Trends Neurosci. 2007 May;30(5):188-93. Epub 2007 Mar 26.

Dopamine: 50 years in perspective.

Iversen SD(1), Iversen LL.

Author information: 
(1)University of Oxford, Departments of Experimental Psychology and Pharmacology,
Oxford OX1 3QT, UK.

The discovery of dopamine as a neurotransmitter in brain by Arvid Carlsson
approximately 50 years ago, and the subsequent insight provided by Paul Greengard
into the cellular signalling mechanisms triggered by dopamine, gained these
researchers the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 2000. Dopamine research has had a
greater impact on the development of biological psychiatry and psychopharmacology
than work on any other neurotransmitter. Neuropsychological views of the role of 
dopamine in the CNS have evolved from that of a simple reward signal to a more
complex situation in which dopamine encodes the importance or 'salience' of
events in the external world. Hypofunctional dopamine states underlie Parkinson's
disease and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and there is increasing
evidence for dopamine hyperactivity in schizophrenia. Some of the medicines that 
are most widely used in psychiatry, such as L-DOPA, methylphenidate and
neuroleptic drugs, act on dopaminergic mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.002 
PMID: 17368565  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Trends Neurosci. 2007 May;30(5):211-9. Epub 2007 Mar 23.

Dopamine-mediated regulation of corticostriatal synaptic plasticity.

Calabresi P(1), Picconi B, Tozzi A, Di Filippo M.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Neurologica, Università di Perugia, Ospedale S. Maria della
Misericordia, Via S. Andrea delle Fratte, 06156, Perugia, Italy. calabre@unipg.it

The striatum represents the main input into the basal ganglia. Neurons projecting
from the striatum receive a large convergence of afferents from all areas of the 
cortex and transmit neural information to the basal ganglia output structures.
Corticostriatal transmission is essential in the regulation of voluntary
movement, in addition to behavioural control, cognitive function and reward
mechanisms. Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), the two 
main forms of synaptic plasticity, are both represented at corticostriatal
synapses and strongly depend on the activation of dopamine receptors. Here, we
discuss possible feedforward and feedback mechanisms by which striatal
interneurons, in association with striatal spiny neurons and endogenous dopamine,
influence the formation and maintenance of both LTP and LTD. We also propose a
model in which the spontaneous membrane oscillations of neurons projecting from
the striatum (named 'up' and 'down' states), in addition to the pattern of
release of endogenous dopamine, bias the synapse towards preferential induction
of LTP or LTD. Finally, we discuss how endogenous dopamine crucially influences
changes in synaptic plasticity induced by pathological stimuli, such as energy
deprivation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.03.001 
PMID: 17367873  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Apr;30(4):159-66. Epub 2007 Mar 6.

Neuronal death: where does the end begin?

Conforti L(1), Adalbert R, Coleman MP.

Author information: 
(1)The Babraham Institute, Babraham, Cambridge CB22 3AT, UK.

Neurodegenerative disorders involve death of cell bodies, axons, dendrites and
synapses, but it is surprisingly difficult to determine the spatiotemporal
sequence of events and the causal relationships among these events. Neuronal
compartments often crucially depend upon one another for survival, and molecular 
defects in one compartment can trigger cellular degeneration in distant parts of 
the neuron. Here, we consider the novel approaches used to understand these
biologically complex and technically challenging questions in amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis, spinal muscular atrophy, glaucoma, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's
disease and polyglutamine disorders. We conclude that there is partial
understanding of what degenerates first and why, but that controversy remains the
rule not the exception. Finally, we highlight strategies for resolving these
fundamental issues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.02.004 
PMID: 17339056  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Apr;30(4):176-84. Epub 2007 Mar 1.

Long-term depression: multiple forms and implications for brain function.

Massey PV(1), Bashir ZI.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Synaptic Plasticity, Department of Anatomy, University of
Bristol, BS8 1TD, UK. P.V.Massey@bristol.ac.uk

Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) remain widely
accepted vertebrate models for the cellular and molecular mechanisms that
underlie synaptic changes during learning and memory. Although LTD is a
phenomenon that occurs in many regions of the CNS, it is clear that the
mechanisms recruited in its induction and expression can vary, depending on many 
factors, including brain region and developmental time point. LTD in the
hippocampus and cerebellum is probably the best characterized, although there are
also other brain areas where mechanisms of LTD are well understood, and where it 
is thought to have a functional role.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.02.005 
PMID: 17335914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Apr;30(4):135-41. Epub 2007 Feb 27.

Procedural learning difficulties: reuniting the developmental disorders?

Nicolson RI(1), Fawcett AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Sheffield, Sheffield S10 2TP, UK.
r.nicolson@shef.ac.uk

During the past 30 years, research into developmental disorders has fragmented,
emphasizing differences rather than commonalities. We propose that reunification 
might be achieved by using a "neural-systems" approach. Deficits in dyslexia are 
attributed to an intact declarative learning system combined with an impaired
procedural learning system--a network that includes prefrontal language systems
and basal ganglia, parietal and cerebellar structures. A typology is provided for
other prevalent learning disabilities; this framework focuses on different
learning skills in the understanding of learning disabilities and emphasizes the 
diagnostic significance of "secondary" symptoms. This approach highlights the
need for development of "neurocognitive" tests to probe the function of
components of each neural system and improve strategies for explanation,
diagnosis and support of developmental disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.02.003 
PMID: 17328970  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Apr;30(4):142-9. Epub 2007 Feb 26.

Schizophrenia as a GSK-3 dysregulation disorder.

Lovestone S(1), Killick R, Di Forti M, Murray R.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Psychological Medicine and Neuroscience Institute of
Psychiatry, King's College London, De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF, UK.
s.lovestone@iop.kcl.ac.uk

Converging evidence suggests that the regulation of glycogen synthase kinase 3
(GSK-3) might be important in schizophrenia. Atypical and typical antipsychotic
drugs alter GSK-3 activity, as do drugs that induce psychosis. GSK-3 regulatory
pathways are altered in schizophrenia, and many of the genes associated with
schizophrenia directly or indirectly regulate GSK-3 activity. We propose a
variant on the neurodevelopment and dopamine hypotheses of schizophrenia, whereby
(i) an early dysfunction in GSK-3 regulation has neurodevelopmental consequences 
that predispose to disease and (ii) dysfunction in GSK-3 regulation in the adult 
brain alters dopamine signalling events, causing psychotic symptoms and cognitive
dysfunction. If, as we suggest, GSK-3 regulation is crucial to schizophrenia, the
Wnt and insulin signalling pathways become targets for therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.02.002 
PMID: 17324475  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Apr;30(4):150-8. Epub 2007 Feb 20.

New vistas for alpha-frequency band oscillations.

Palva S(1), Palva JM.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Center, University of Helsinki P.O. Box 56, FI-00014 University
of Helsinki, Finland. Satu.Palva@helsinki.fi

The amplitude of alpha-frequency band (8-14 Hz) activity in the human
electroencephalogram is suppressed by eye opening, visual stimuli and visual
scanning, whereas it is enhanced during internal tasks, such as mental
calculation and working memory. alpha-Frequency band oscillations have hence been
thought to reflect idling or inhibition of task-irrelevant cortical areas.
However, recent data on alpha-amplitude and, in particular, alpha-phase dynamics 
posit a direct and active role for alpha-frequency band rhythmicity in the
mechanisms of attention and consciousness. We propose that simultaneous alpha-,
beta- (14-30 Hz) and gamma- (30-70 Hz) frequency band oscillations are required
for unified cognitive operations, and hypothesize that cross-frequency phase
synchrony between alpha, beta and gamma oscillations coordinates the selection
and maintenance of neuronal object representations during working memory,
perception and consciousness.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.02.001 
PMID: 17307258  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Apr;30(4):167-75. Epub 2007 Feb 9.

LTP forms 1, 2 and 3: different mechanisms for the "long" in long-term
potentiation.

Raymond CR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, The John Curtin School of Medical Research, The
Australian National University Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.
clarke.raymond@anu.edu.au

Long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission is a primary experimental
model of memory formation in neuronal circuits. Because of the intellectual
appeal and scientific fecundity of the field, it is perhaps unsurprising that the
literature on LTP contains many complex and often contradictory findings.
Recognition that LTP is not a unitary phenomenon and mechanisms can differ
between brain regions has resolved some controversy. However, further
categorization can be made of mechanistically discrete forms of LTP at the same
set of synapses. LTP1, LTP2 and LTP3 have previously been defined according to
differences in the longevity and general molecular mechanisms of LTP. This review
aims to reinvigorate and extend this concept as a useful framework to disentangle
the mechanisms of LTP.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.01.007 
PMID: 17292975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Mar;30(3):126-34. Epub 2007 Feb 1.

Ca2+-permeable AMPA receptors in synaptic plasticity and neuronal death.

Liu SJ(1), Zukin RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA
16802, USA. sjl16@psu.edu

AMPA receptors mediate fast synaptic transmission at excitatory synapses in the
CNS and are crucial during neuronal development, synaptic plasticity and
structural remodeling. AMPA receptors lacking GluR2 subunits are permeable to
Ca(2+) and Zn(2+). Ca(2+) permeation through AMPA receptors is crucial in several
forms of synaptic plasticity and cell death associated with neurological diseases
and disorders. The subunit composition and Ca(2+) permeability of AMPA receptors 
are not static, but they are dynamically remodeled in a cell- and
synapse-specific manner during development and in response to neuronal activity, 
sensory experience and neuronal insults. Exciting new research shows that these
changes arise not only because of regulated expression of the AMPA receptor
subunit GluR2, but also as a consequence of RNA editing, receptor trafficking and
dendritic protein synthesis. This article reviews new insights into the role of
Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors in neuronal function and survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.01.006 
PMID: 17275103  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Mar;30(3):101-10. Epub 2007 Feb 1.

The organizing principles of neuronal avalanches: cell assemblies in the cortex?

Plenz D(1), Thiagarajan TC.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Neural Network Physiology, National Institute of Mental Health,
Porter Neuroscience Research Center, 35 Convent Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
plenzd@mail.nih.gov

Neuronal avalanches are spatiotemporal patterns of neuronal activity that occur
spontaneously in superficial layers of the mammalian cortex under various
experimental conditions. These patterns reflect fast propagation of local
synchrony, display a rich spatiotemporal diversity and recur over several hours. 
The statistical organization of pattern sizes is invariant to the choice of
spatial scale, demonstrating that the functional linking of cortical sites into
avalanches occurs on all spatial scales with a fractal organization. These
features suggest an underlying network of neuronal interactions that balances
diverse representations with predictable recurrence, similar to what has been
theorized for cell assembly formation. We propose that avalanches reflect the
transient formation of cell assemblies in the cortex and discuss various models
that provide mechanistic insights into the underlying dynamics, suggesting that
they arise in a critical regime.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.01.005 
PMID: 17275102  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Mar;30(3):119-25. Epub 2007 Jan 30.

Sensing and expressing homeostatic synaptic plasticity.

Rich MM(1), Wenner P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Cell Biology and Physiology, Wright State
University, Dayton, OH 45435, USA. mark.rich@wright.edu

Chronic changes in the level of neuronal activity (over a period of days) trigger
compensatory changes in synaptic function that seem to contribute to the
homeostatic restoration of neuronal activity. Changes in both quantal amplitude
and vesicle release contribute to homeostatic synaptic plasticity, but they are
often considered as the same phenomenon. In this review, we propose a new
approach to studying how neuronal activity is sensed and changes in synaptic
function are expressed during synaptic compensation. Changes in quantal amplitude
and vesicle release should be considered separately in an attempt to identify the
sensors that trigger homeostatic synaptic plasticity. Although data are limited, 
current evidence suggests that the sensors triggering changes in the quantal
amplitude and vesicle release exist at different locations. Furthermore, it is
important to recognize that at least two different mechanisms underlie changes in
quantal amplitude during homeostatic synaptic plasticity: changes in both the
number of postsynaptic receptors and loading of synaptic vesicles with
neurotransmitter. Finally, modulation of the probability of neurotransmitter
release contributes to the changes in vesicle release associated with homeostatic
synaptic plasticity. An improved understanding of where and how neuronal activity
is sensed, in addition to the types of changes in synaptic function that are
induced, will be needed both to design future experiments and to understand the
consequences of synaptic compensation following injury to the nervous system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.01.004 
PMID: 17267052  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Mar;30(3):85-91. Epub 2007 Jan 22.

Sumoylation in neurons: nuclear and synaptic roles?

Scheschonka A(1), Tang Z, Betz H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurochemistry, Max-Planck Institute for Brain Research,
Deutschordenstrasse 46, 60528 Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
scheschonka@mpih-frankfurt.mpg.de

Sumoylation is a post-translational modification that was originally thought to
only target nuclear proteins. Evidence has emerged, however, that the role of
sumoylation is much more diverse: three plasma membrane proteins belonging to
different protein families (glucose transporters, K(+) channels and metabotropic 
glutamate receptors) have been shown to be sumoylated. In addition, sumoylation
of transcription factors, such as myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2), was found to 
regulate synapse formation. A major role of sumoylation in other systems is to
modify protein-protein interactions, and because protein interactions are
particularly elaborate in the nervous system and crucial for synapse formation
and function, sumoylation could constitute a major regulatory mechanism in
neurons. In this review, we evaluate the available data and discuss possible
roles for sumoylation in the regulation of crucial neurobiological processes,
such as neuronal development and synaptic transmission.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.01.003 
PMID: 17241677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Mar;30(3):111-8. Epub 2007 Jan 17.

Hippocampal long-term depression: master or minion in declarative memory
processes?

Kemp A(1), Manahan-Vaughan D.

Author information: 
(1)Learning and Memory Research, Medical Faculty, Ruhr University Bochum,
Universitätsstrasse 150, MABF 01/551, 44780 Bochum, Germany.

The neural mechanisms for the formation of declarative memory (memory for facts
and events) are believed to be integrated from processes mediated by hippocampal 
long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD). Traditionally, LTP
has been designated as the main mediator of spatial memory storage in the
hippocampus, whereas LTD has been assigned an auxiliary role in signal-to-noise
regulation or in forgetting. It has recently become apparent, however, that LTD
contributes directly to hippocampal information storage. In fact, LTD could
dominate in the processing of precise spatial characteristics. Accumulating
evidence supports the idea that LTP and LTD enable distinct and separate forms of
information storage, which together facilitate the generation of a spatial
cognitive map.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.01.002 
PMID: 17234277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Mar;30(3):92-100. Epub 2007 Jan 16.

Spatiotemporal representations in the olfactory system.

Schaefer AT(1), Margrie TW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University College London, Gower Street, London,
WC1E 6BT, UK.

A complete understanding of the mechanisms underlying any kind of sensory, motor 
or cognitive task requires analysis from the systems to the cellular level. In
olfaction, new behavioural evidence in rodents has provided temporal limits on
neural processing times that correspond to less than 150ms--the timescale of a
single sniff. Recent in vivo data from the olfactory bulb indicate that, within
each sniff, odour representation is not only spatially organized, but also
temporally structured by odour-specific patterns of onset latencies. Thus, we
propose that the spatial representation of odour is not a static one, but rather 
evolves across a sniff, whereby for difficult discriminations of similar odours, 
it is necessary for the olfactory system to "wait" for later-activated
components. Based on such evidence, we have devised a working model to assess
further the relevance of such spatiotemporal processes in odour representation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2007.01.001 
PMID: 17224191  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Feb;30(2):70-8. Epub 2006 Dec 22.

A matter of time: internal delays in binaural processing.

Joris P(1), Yin TC.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, University of Leuven, Campus
Gasthuisberg, O&N2 Herestraat 49, Bus 1021, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium.
philip.joris@med.kuleuven.be

As an animal navigates its surroundings, the sounds reaching its two ears change 
in waveform similarity (interaural correlation) and in time of arrival
(interaural time difference, ITD). Humans are exquisitely sensitive to these
binaural cues, and it is generally agreed that this sensitivity involves
coincidence detectors and internal delays that compensate for external acoustic
delays (ITDs). Recent data show an unexpected relationship between the tuning of 
a neuron to frequency and to ITD, leading to several proposals for sources of
internal delay and the neural coding of interaural temporal cues. We review the
alternatives, and argue that an understanding of binaural mechanisms requires
consideration of sensitivity not only to ITDs, but also to interaural
correlation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.12.004 
PMID: 17188761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Feb;30(2):62-9. Epub 2006 Dec 13.

Space, time and dopamine.

Arbuthnott GW(1), Wickens J.

Author information: 
(1)The University of Edinburgh, School of Biomedical and Clinical Laboratory
Sciences, Division of Neuroscience, 1 George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9JZ, UK.
gordon.arbuthnott@anatomy.otago.ac.nz

In recent years, dopamine has emerged as a key neurotransmitter that is crucially
involved in incentive motivation and reinforcement learning. Dopamine release is 
evoked by rewards. The extensive divergence of outputs from a small number of
dopaminergic neurons suggests a spatially nonselective action of dopamine, but it
reinforces the specific actions that led to reward. How is this achieved? We
propose that the selectivity of dopamine effects is achieved by the timing of
dopamine release in relation to the activity of glutamatergic synapses, rather
than by spatial localization of the dopamine signal to specific synaptic
contacts. The synaptic mechanisms of these actions are unknown but reduced levels
of dopamine, for example in Parkinson's disease, leads to a paucity of
behavioural output, whereas its excess production has been associated with
psychiatric problems. Clearly, there are therapeutic imperatives that require a
better understanding of how dopamine functions at a synaptic level.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.12.003 
PMID: 17173981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Feb;30(2):54-61. Epub 2006 Dec 13.

The chemical synapse goes electric: Ca2+- and voltage-sensitive GPCRs control
neurotransmitter release.

Parnas H(1), Parnas I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, The Life Science Institute, The Hebrew University 
of Jerusalem, Edmond J. Safra campus, Jerusalem 91904, Israel. parnas@huji.ac.il

It is widely believed that the initiation of transmitter release in fast synapses
is triggered by rapid Ca2+ entry and that the termination of release is governed 
by removal of Ca2+ from below the release sites. We argue that, although Ca2+ is 
essential for release, fast-entry kinetics render Ca2+ incapable of being the
limiting factor for the initiation of release, and the relatively slow removal of
Ca2+ cannot be the limiting factor for the termination of release. We suggest,
and provide supporting evidence for, a novel general mechanism for control of
fast transmitter release (in the range of milliseconds) from nerve terminals.
According to this mechanism, two factors control release: Ca2+ and
voltage-sensitive presynaptic inhibitory G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs).
Inhibitory autoreceptors are known to mediate slow feedback inhibition of
transmitter release. We discuss the evidence showing that these receptors also
control the initiation and termination of transmitter release by directly
interacting with core proteins in the exocytotic machinery. This novel mechanism 
has important implications for understanding the regulation of transmitter
release, synaptic plasticity and neuronal circuit properties.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.12.001 
PMID: 17169441  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Feb;30(2):79-84. Epub 2006 Dec 13.

5-Hydroxytryptamine in premature ejaculation: opportunities for therapeutic
intervention.

Giuliano F(1).

Author information: 
(1)AP-HP, Neuro-Uro-Andrology Unit, Department of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, Raymond Poincaré Hospital, 104 Bd Raymond Poincaré, 92380
Garches, France. giuliano@cyber-sante.org

Ejaculation, although mediated by a spinal ejaculation generator, is subject to
descending supraspinal modulation from several brain regions. 5-Hydroxytryptamine
(5-HT or serotonin) is involved in ejaculatory control, with its
ejaculation-retarding effects likely to be attributable to activation of 5-HT1B
and 5-HT2C receptors, both spinally and supraspinally. By contrast, stimulation
of 5-HT1A receptors precipitates ejaculation. Selective serotonin reuptake
inhibitors (SSRIs), which are used for treatment of psychiatric disorders, can
delay ejaculation in humans and are widely used 'off-label' for treatment of
premature ejaculation. SSRIs require 1-2 weeks' chronic dosing to be effective,
similar to their use for treatment of depression. However, a new short-acting
SSRI is effective 'on demand' and might represent the first of a new generation
of therapies targeted to premature ejaculation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.12.002 
PMID: 17169440  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Feb;30(2):47-53. Epub 2006 Dec 8.

An argument for an olfactory thalamus.

Kay LM(1), Sherman SM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Institute for Mind & Biology, The University of
Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. lkay@uchicago.edu

The mammalian olfactory system is unique in that sensory receptors synapse
directly into the olfactory bulb of the forebrain without the thalamic relay that
is common to all other sensory pathways. We argue that the olfactory bulb has an 
equivalent role to the thalamus, because the two regions have very similar
structures and functions. Both the thalamus and the olfactory bulb are the final 
stage in sensory processing before reaching target cortical regions, at which
there is a massive increase in neuron and synapse numbers. Thus, both structures 
act as a bottleneck that is a target for various modulatory inputs, and this
arrangement enables efficient control of information flow before cortical
processing occurs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.11.007 
PMID: 17161473  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jan;30(1):37-45. Epub 2006 Nov 29.

Redox regulation of neuronal survival mediated by electrophilic compounds.

Satoh T(1), Lipton SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Welfare Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Iwate University,
Morioka 020-8551, Japan. tsatoh@iwate-u.ac.jp

The importance of phosphorylation of key threonine, serine and tyrosine residues 
is a well known essential feature of many signal transduction pathways. A
similar, highly conserved redox reaction involving cysteine thiols is now
emerging as an important regulator of protein function. An example of this redox 
regulation is S-nitrosylation (the transfer of a nitric oxide group to a key
protein thiol). Here, we review the chemical biology of an additional class of
drugs, electrophiles (electron-deficient carbon centers), that react with key
protein thiols, and provide insights into a broader class of reactions implicated
in redox signaling. Interestingly, certain electrophilic compounds, including
endogenous metabolites and natural products, seem to have neuroprotective
effects, and this has resulted in the development of neuroprotective
electrophilic drugs, including prostaglandin derivatives and hydroquinones, that 
exert their action through activating antioxidant-signaling cascades.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.11.004 
PMID: 17137643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jan;30(1):14-21. Epub 2006 Nov 29.

New insights into corollary discharges mediated by identified neural pathways.

Poulet JF(1), Hedwig B.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Processing, Brain Mind Institute, EPFL, CH-1015
Lausanne, Switzerland. james.poulet@epfl.ch

Sensory systems respond not only to stimuli from the environment but also to cues
generated by an animal's own behaviour. This leads to problems of sensory
processing because self-generated information can occur at the same time as
external sensory information. However, in motor regions of the CNS corollary
discharges are generated during behaviour. These signals are not used to generate
movements directly but, instead, interact with the processing of self-generated
sensory signals. Corollary discharges transiently modulate self-generated sensory
responses and can prevent self-induced desensitization or help distinguish
between self-generated and externally generated sensory information. Here, we
review recent work that has identified corollary discharge pathways at different 
levels of the CNS in vertebrates and invertebrates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.11.005 
PMID: 17137642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jan;30(1):22-30. Epub 2006 Nov 28.

Nur77 and retinoid X receptors: crucial factors in dopamine-related
neuroadaptation.

Lévesque D(1), Rouillard C.

Author information: 
(1)Faculté de Pharmacie, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec, Canada H3C
3J7. daniel.levesque.1@umontreal.ca

Dopaminergic systems in the brain adapt in response to various stimuli from the
internal and external world, but the mechanisms underlying this process are
incompletely understood. Here, we review recent evidence that certain types of
transcription factor of the nuclear receptor family, specifically Nur77 and
retinoid X receptors, have important roles in adaptation and homeostatic
regulation of dopaminergic systems. These findings call for a reassessment of our
fundamental understanding of the molecular and cellular basis of
dopamine-mediated transmission. Given that diseases such as Parkinson's disease
and schizophrenia are thought to involve adaptation of dopamine signalling, these
findings might provide new insight into these pathologies and offer new avenues
for drug development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.11.006 
PMID: 17134767  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jan;30(1):9-13. Epub 2006 Nov 28.

5-HT in the enteric nervous system: gut function and neuropharmacology.

McLean PG(1), Borman RA, Lee K.

Author information: 
(1)Neurology and Gastrointestinal Centre of Excellence for Drug Discovery,
GlaxoSmithKline, New Frontiers Science Park, Third Avenue, Harlow, Essex CM19
5AW, UK.

In recent times, the perception of functional gastrointestinal disorders such as 
irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) has shifted fundamentally. Such disorders are now 
thought of as serious diseases characterized by perturbations in the neuronal
regulation of gastrointestinal function. The concept of visceral
hypersensitivity, the characterization of neuronal networks in the 'brain-gut
axis' and the identification of several novel 5-HT-mediated mechanisms have
contributed to this shift. Here, we review how some of the more promising of
these new mechanisms (e.g. those involving 5-HT transporters and the 5-HT(2B),
5-HT(7) and putative 5-HT(1p) receptors) might lead to a range of
second-generation therapies that could revolutionize the treatment of functional 
gastrointestinal disorders, particularly IBS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.11.002 
PMID: 17126921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jan;30(1):31-6. Epub 2006 Nov 28.

Interplay between protein synthesis and degradation in the CNS: physiological and
pathological implications.

Ding Q(1), Cecarini V, Keller JN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, and Sanders-Brown Center on Aging,
University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40536-0230, USA.

Compromise of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is a potential basis for
multiple physiological abnormalities and pathologies in the CNS. This could be
because reduced protein turnover leads to bulk intracellular protein
accumulation. However, conditions associated with compromised UPS function are
also associated with impairments in protein synthesis, and impairment of UPS
function is sufficient to inhibit protein synthesis. These data suggest that the 
toxicity of UPS inhibition need not depend on gross intracellular protein
accumulation, and indicate the potential for crosstalk between the UPS and
protein-synthesis pathways. In this review, we discuss evidence for interplay
between the UPS and protein-synthesis machinery, and outline the implications of 
this crosstalk for physiological and pathological processes in the CNS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.11.003 
PMID: 17126920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Trends Neurosci. 2007 Jan;30(1):1-8. Epub 2006 Nov 20.

GABA sets the tempo for activity-dependent adult neurogenesis.

Ge S(1), Pradhan DA, Ming GL, Song H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cell Engineering, Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, 733 North Broadway, BRB 735, Baltimore, MD 21205, 
USA.

GABA, a major inhibitory neurotransmitter in the adult brain, activates synaptic 
and extrasynaptic GABA(A) receptors, causing hyperpolarization of mature neurons.
As in the embryonic nervous system, GABA depolarizes neural progenitors and
immature neurons in the adult brain. Several recent studies have suggested that
GABA has crucial roles in regulating different steps of adult neurogenesis,
including proliferation of neural progenitors, migration and differentiation of
neuroblasts, and synaptic integration of newborn neurons. Here, we review recent 
findings on how GABA regulates adult neurogenesis in the subventricular zone of
the lateral ventricles and in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. We also
discuss an emerging view that GABA serves as a key mediator of neuronal activity 
in setting the tempo of adult neurogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.11.001 
PMID: 17116335  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Dec;29(12):695-703. Epub 2006 Nov 7.

Role of ERK in cocaine addiction.

Lu L(1), Koya E, Zhai H, Hope BT, Shaham Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuropharmacology, National Institute on Drug Dependence, Peking
University, Beijing 100083, China. linlu@bjmu.edu.cn

Cocaine addiction is characterized by compulsive drug-taking behavior and high
rates of relapse. According to recent theories, this addiction is due to
drug-induced adaptations in the cellular mechanisms that underlie normal learning
and memory. Such mechanisms involve signaling by extracellular signal-regulated
kinase (ERK). As we review here, evidence from rodent studies also implicates ERK
in cocaine psychomotor sensitization, cocaine reward, consolidation and
reconsolidation of memories for cocaine cues, and time-dependent increases in
cocaine seeking after withdrawal (incubation of cocaine craving). The role of ERK
in these behaviors involves long-term stable alterations in synaptic plasticity
that result from repeated cocaine exposure, and also rapidly induced alterations 
in synaptic transmission events that acutely control cocaine-seeking behaviors.
Pharmacological manipulations that decrease the extent to which cocaine and
cocaine cues induce ERK activity might therefore be considered as potential
treatments for cocaine addiction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.10.005 
PMID: 17084911  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Dec;29(12):679-86. Epub 2006 Nov 3.

Protein serine/threonine phosphatases in neuronal plasticity and disorders of
learning and memory.

Mansuy IM(1), Shenolikar S.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, Medical Faculty of the University Zürich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland. mansuy@hifo.unizh.ch

Phosphorylation and dephosphorylation of cellular proteins by protein kinases and
phosphatases represent important mechanisms for controlling major biological
events. In the nervous system, protein phosphatases are contained in highly
dynamic complexes localized within specialized subcellular compartments and they 
ensure timely dephosphorylation of multiple neuronal phosphoproteins. This
modulates the responsiveness of individual synapses to neural activity and
controls synaptic plasticity. These enzymes in turn play a key role in many forms
of learning and memory, and their dysfunction contributes to cognitive deficits
associated with aging and dementias or neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we
review key modes of regulation of neuronal protein serine/threonine phosphatases 
and their contribution to disorders of learning and memory.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.10.004 
PMID: 17084465  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


781. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Dec;29(12):671-8. Epub 2006 Oct 27.

Spatial representation and the architecture of the entorhinal cortex.

Witter MP(1), Moser EI.

Author information: 
(1)Research Institute Neurosciences, Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences, VU 
University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. mp.witter@vumc.nl

It has recently been recognized that the entorhinal cortex has a crucial role in 
spatial representation and navigation. How the position of an animal is computed 
within the entorhinal circuitry remains to be determined, but the architectural
organization of this brain area might provide some clues. Here, we review three
organizational principles--recurrent connectivity, interlaminar connectivity and 
modular organization--and propose how each of them might contribute to the
emergence and maintenance of positional representations in entorhinal neural
networks.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.10.003 
PMID: 17069897  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Dec;29(12):662-70. Epub 2006 Oct 13.

Neurocognitive aging: prior memories hinder new hippocampal encoding.

Wilson IA(1), Gallagher M, Eichenbaum H, Tanila H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Neurology, University of Kuopio, Kuopio 70211, 
Finland. iain.wilson@ed.ac.uk

Normal aging is often accompanied by impairments in forming new memories, and
studies of aging rodents have revealed structural and functional changes to the
hippocampus that might point to the mechanisms behind such memory loss. In this
article, we synthesize recent neurobiological and neurophysiological findings
into a model of the information-processing circuit of the aging hippocampus. The 
key point of the model is that small concurrent changes during aging strengthen
the auto-associative network of the CA3 subregion at the cost of processing new
information coming in from the entorhinal cortex. As a result of such
reorganization in aged memory-impaired individuals, information that is already
stored would become the dominant pattern of the hippocampus to the detriment of
the ability to encode new information.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.10.002 
PMCID: PMC2614702
PMID: 17046075  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Dec;29(12):655-61. Epub 2006 Oct 13.

Neurons in motion: same principles for different shapes?

Marín O(1), Valdeolmillos M, Moya F.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Neurociencias de Alicante, CSIC and Universidad Miguel Hernández,
03550 Sant Joan d'Alacant, Spain. o.marin@umh.es

The special conformation of the developing nervous system, in which progenitor
zones are largely confined to the lumen of the neural tube, places neuronal
migration as one of the most fundamental processes in brain development. Previous
studies have shown that different neuronal types adopt distinct morphological
modes of migration in the developing brain, indicating that neuronal migration
might be a diverse process. Here, we review recent data on the molecular
mechanisms underlying neuronal migration that suggest that similar signaling
principles are responsible for the frequently variable morphology of different
types of migrating neuron. According to this idea, the same basic molecular
mechanisms found in other cell types, such as fibroblasts, might have been
adapted to the special morphological needs of migrating neurons in different
regions of the developing brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.10.001 
PMID: 17046074  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Dec;29(12):687-94. Epub 2006 Sep 26.

Lipoprotein receptors in Alzheimer's disease.

Andersen OM(1), Willnow TE.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Delbrueck-Center for Molecular Medicine, D-13125 Berlin, Germany.

Lipoprotein receptors have important roles in pathological processes that lead to
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previously, they were believed to act mainly by
modulating the neuronal metabolism of cholesterol and apolipoprotein E, major
risk factors for spontaneous AD. However, recent findings point towards an
unexpected new function for lipoprotein receptors in regulation of intracellular 
transport and processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) to give
amyloid-beta peptide, the principal component of senile plaques. Here, we will
discuss how lipoprotein receptors might modulate distinct steps in neuronal
trafficking of APP, and how an intricate balance between opposing receptor
activities might be a crucial determinant of APP processing, and of onset and
progression of neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.09.002 
PMID: 17000013  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Nov;29(11):601-3. Epub 2006 Oct 9.

Molecular programming of stem cells into mesodiencephalic dopaminergic neurons.

Burbach JP(1), Smidt MP.

Author information: 
(1)Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, Department of Pharmacology and
Anatomy, University Medical Center Utrecht, PO Box 85060, 3508 AB Utrecht, The
Netherlands. j.p.h.burbach@med.uu.nl

In a screen for homeobox transcription factors expressed in the embryonic ventral
midbrain, Andersson et al. recently identified Lmx1a and Msx1. Using in ovo
electroporation in chick embryos, they showed that these factors are crucial for 
initiating the differentiation of neuroepithelial progenitor neurons into
mesodiencephalic dopaminergic (mdDA) neurons. Lmx1a also initiated a
developmental program that drove an mdDA phenotype in mouse embryonic stem cells.
This indicates that these factors can be exploited in cell-replacement strategies
for treatment of Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.09.003 
PMID: 17030431  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Nov;29(11):640-6. Epub 2006 Oct 9.

Genetic mouse models for studying inhibitors of spinal axon regeneration.

Zheng B(1), Lee JK, Xie F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California San Diego, 9500 Gilman
Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0691, USA. binhai@ucsd.edu

The laboratory mouse has emerged as a primary model organism for studying axon
regeneration after experimental spinal cord injury, owing to its genetic
amenability. Mutant mouse models are contributing significantly to our
understanding of the molecular mechanisms of axon regeneration failure in the
adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS), in particular regarding the role of
axon-growth inhibitors. Here, we discuss recent advances in understanding axon
regeneration failure that have been made using genetically modified mice,
focusing on the inhibitory influences in the CNS, and we illustrate the
advantages of using the mouse as a surrogate organism to study axon regeneration 
and spinal cord repair.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.09.005 
PMID: 17030430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Nov;29(11):647-54. Epub 2006 Oct 9.

Targeting adenosine A2A receptors in Parkinson's disease.

Schwarzschild MA(1), Agnati L, Fuxe K, Chen JF, Morelli M.

Author information: 
(1)MassGeneral Institute for Neurodegenerative Disease, Massachusetts General
Hospital, Boston, MA 02129, USA. michaels@helix.mgh.harvard.edu

The adenosine A2A receptor has emerged as an attractive non-dopaminergic target
in the pursuit of improved therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD), based in part on
its unique CNS distribution. It is highly enriched in striatopallidal neurons and
can form functional heteromeric complexes with other G-protein-coupled receptors,
including dopamine D2, metabotropic glutamate mGlu5 and adenosine A1 receptors.
Blockade of the adenosine A2A receptor in striatopallidal neurons reduces
postsynaptic effects of dopamine depletion, and in turn lessens the motor
deficits of PD. A2A antagonists might partially improve not only the symptoms of 
PD but also its course, by slowing the underlying neurodegeneration and reducing 
the maladaptive neuroplasticity that complicates standard 'dopamine replacement' 
treatments. Thus, we review here a prime example of translational neuroscience,
through which antagonism of A2A receptors has now entered the arena of clinical
trials with realistic prospects for advancing PD therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.09.004 
PMID: 17030429  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Nov;29(11):632-9. Epub 2006 Sep 26.

Neurohormetic phytochemicals: Low-dose toxins that induce adaptive neuronal
stress responses.

Mattson MP(1), Cheng A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging Intramural Research
Program, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. mattsonm@grc.nia.nih.gov

Diets rich in vegetables and fruits are associated with reduced risk of several
major diseases, including neurodegenerative disorders. Although some beneficial
phytochemicals might function solely as antioxidants, it is becoming clear that
many of the beneficial chemicals in vegetables and fruits evolved as toxins (to
dissuade insects and other predators) that, at subtoxic doses, activate adaptive 
cellular stress-response pathways in a variety of cells including neurons.
Examples of such 'preconditioning' or 'neurohormesis' pathways include those
involving cell-survival signaling kinases, the transcription factors NRF2 and
CREB, and histone deacetylases of the sirtuin family. In these ways,
neurohormetic phytochemicals such as resveratrol, sulforaphanes and curcumin
might protect neurons against injury and disease by stimulating the production of
antioxidant enzymes, neurotrophic factors, protein chaperones and other proteins 
that help cells to withstand stress. Thus, as we discuss in this review, highly
conserved longevity and survival pathways in neurons are the targets of many
phytochemicals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.09.001 
PMID: 17000014  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Nov;29(11):625-31. Epub 2006 Sep 7.

Assessing sensory function in locomotor systems using neuro-mechanical
simulations.

Pearson K(1), Ekeberg O, Büschges A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, T6G 2H7, Canada.
keir.pearson@ualberta.ca

Computer simulations are being used increasingly to gain an understanding of the 
complex interactions between the neuronal, sensory, muscular and mechanical
components of locomotor systems. Recent neuro-mechanical simulations of walking
in humans, cats and insects, and of swimming in lampreys, have provided new
information on the functional role of specific groups of sensory receptors in
regulating locomotion. As we discuss in this review, these studies also make it
clear that a full understanding of the neural and mechanical mechanisms that
underlie locomotion can be achieved only by using simulations in parallel with
physiological investigations. The widespread implementation of this approach
would be enhanced by the development of freely available and easy-to-use software
tools.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.08.007 
PMID: 16956675  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Nov;29(11):610-6. Epub 2006 Sep 7.

Exciting inhibition in psychostimulant addiction.

Kalivas PW(1), Hu XT.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston,
SC 29425, USA. kalivasp@musc.edu

Neuroplasticity induced in the nucleus accumbens by repeated psychostimulant
administration is thought to underlie the vulnerability to relapse in addicts.
Electrophysiological research presents a contradictory portrait of
psychostimulant-induced neuroplasticity, reflecting both increases and decreases 
in excitatory transmission. Drug-induced adaptations of ionic conductances
decrease the intrinsic excitability of individual nucleus accumbens spiny neurons
but, in the context of the circuitry in which these neurons are embedded, such
reduced intrinsic excitability increases the salience of excitatory drive that is
elicited by drug-associated stimuli. Thus, we propose that reduced basal
excitability, combined with enhanced excitatory drive by drug-associated stimuli,
contributes to the two cardinal features of addiction: reduced responding to
natural reward and enduring vulnerability to relapse.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.08.008 
PMID: 16956674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Nov;29(11):617-24. Epub 2006 Aug 30.

Presynaptic Ca2+ channels--integration centers for neuronal signaling pathways.

Evans RM(1), Zamponi GW.

Author information: 
(1)Hotchkiss Brain Institute, Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Faculty of
Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta T2N 4N1, Canada.

Calcium influx into presynaptic nerve terminals via voltage-gated Ca2+ channels
is an essential step in neurotransmitter release. The predominant Ca2+ channel
species in synaptic nerve terminals are P/Q-type and N-type channels, with their 
relative levels of expression varying across the nervous system. The different
distributions of these two channel subtypes are reflected in their distinct
physiological and pathological roles, yet their activity is regulated by common
mechanisms and both function as part of larger signaling complexes that enable
their precise regulation and subcellular targeting. Here, we provide a broad
overview of molecular and cellular mechanisms that regulate Ca2+ channels, and
how these cellular signaling pathways are integrated at the level of the channel 
protein.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.08.006 
PMID: 16942804  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Nov;29(11):604-9. Epub 2006 Aug 14.

Odortypes and MHC peptides: Complementary chemosignals of MHC haplotype?

Restrepo D(1), Lin W, Salcedo E, Yamazaki K, Beauchamp G.

Author information: 
(1)Rocky Mountain Taste and Smell Center, Neuroscience Program and Department of 
Cell and Developmental Biology, University of Colorado at Denver and Health
Sciences Center, Aurora, CO 80045, USA. diego.restrepo@uchsc.edu

The olfactory and immune systems must perform optimally in the task of
recognizing thousands of molecules to ensure survival. A particularly intriguing 
link between these systems is that animals can smell differences in the major
histocompatibility complex (MHC), a cluster of highly polymorphic genes found on 
human chromosome 6 and mouse chromosome 17. Two different sets of compounds found
in urine have been postulated to convey information on MHC haplotype: volatile
compounds (odortypes) and MHC peptides. Here we argue for complementary roles for
these chemosignals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.08.001 
PMID: 16904761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Oct;29(10):587-99. Epub 2006 Aug 30.

Learning, aging and intrinsic neuronal plasticity.

Disterhoft JF(1), Oh MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern
University, Chicago, IL 60611-3008, USA. jdisterhoft@northwestern.edu

In vitro experiments indicate that intrinsic neuronal excitability, as evidenced 
by changes in the post-burst afterhyperpolarization (AHP) and spike-frequency
accommodation, is altered during learning and normal aging in the brain. Here we 
review these studies, highlighting two consistent findings: (i) that AHP and
accommodation are reduced in pyramidal neurons from animals that have learned a
task; and (ii) that AHP and accommodation are enhanced in pyramidal neurons from 
aging subjects, a cellular change that might contribute to age-related learning
impairments. Findings from in vivo single-neuron recording studies complement the
in vitro data. From these consistently reproduced findings, we propose that the
intrinsic AHP level might determine the degree of synaptic plasticity and
learning. Furthermore, it seems that reductions in the AHP must occur before
learning if young and aging subjects are to learn a task successfully.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.08.005 
PMID: 16942805  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Oct;29(10):547-53. Epub 2006 Aug 30.

Astrocytic complexity distinguishes the human brain.

Oberheim NA(1), Wang X, Goldman S, Nedergaard M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Aging and Developmental Biology, Department of Neurosurgery,
University of Rochester Medical Center, 601 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, NY 14642, 
USA.

One of the most distinguishing features of the adult human brain is the
complexity and diversity of its cortical astrocytes. Human protoplasmic
astrocytes manifest a threefold larger diameter and have tenfold more primary
processes than those of rodents. In all mammals, protoplasmic astrocytes are
organized into spatially non-overlapping domains that encompass both neurons and 
vasculature. Yet unique to humans and primates are additional populations of
layer 1 interlaminar astrocytes that extend long (millimeter) fibers, and layer
5-6 polarized astrocytes that also project distinctive long processes. We propose
that human cortical evolution has been accompanied by increasing complexity in
the form and function of astrocytes, which reflects an expansion of their
functional roles in synaptic modulation and cortical circuitry.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.08.004 
PMID: 16938356  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Oct;29(10):563-70. Epub 2006 Aug 21.

Lineage in the vertebrate retina.

Cayouette M(1), Poggi L, Harris WA.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Neurobiology Laboratory, Institut de Recherches Cliniques de Montréal
(IRCM) and Université de Montréal, Montréal, Quebec H2W 1R7, Canada.
michel.cayouette@ircm.qc.ca

Recent results are changing the way we think about cell-fate decision mechanisms 
in the retina. For a long time it was accepted that lineage was not important in 
retinal cellular determination but, as we review here, new data show that lineage
programmes might be at the heart of this process. These programmes are intrinsic,
but they are also plastic and are influenced by extrinsic signals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.08.003 
PMID: 16920202  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Oct;29(10):571-7. Epub 2006 Aug 14.

Arousal and reward: a dichotomy in orexin function.

Harris GC(1), Aston-Jones G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pennsylvania, Translational Research
Labs/3403, 125 South 31st Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

The orexins (or hypocretins) are neuropeptide transmitters made exclusively in
hypothalamic neurons that have extensive CNS projections. Previous studies
reported that this system is most strongly associated with feeding, arousal and
the maintenance of waking. We review here recent studies that reveal a novel and 
important role for the orexin/hypocretin neuronal system in reward processing and
addiction. We propose that the current evidence indicates a dichotomy in orexin
function, such that orexin neurons in the lateral hypothalamus regulate reward
processing for both food and abused drugs, whereas those in the perifornical and 
dorsomedial hypothalamus regulate arousal and response to stress. Evidence also
indicates roles for lateral hypothalamus orexin neurons and ventral tegmental
orexin receptors in reward-based learning and memory.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.08.002 
PMID: 16904760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Oct;29(10):578-86. Epub 2006 Aug 7.

Acid-sensing ion channels: advances, questions and therapeutic opportunities.

Wemmie JA(1), Price MP, Welsh MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Roy J. and Lucille A. Carver College of Medicine,
University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA 52242, USA. john-wemmie@uiowa.edu

Extracellular acid can have important effects on neuron function. In central and 
peripheral neurons, acid-sensing ion channels (ASICs) have emerged as key
receptors for extracellular protons, and recent studies suggest diverse roles for
these channels in the pathophysiology of pain, ischemic stroke and psychiatric
disease. ASICs have also been implicated in mechanosensation in the peripheral
nervous system and in neurotransmission in the central nervous system. Here, we
briefly review advances in our understanding of ASICs, their potential
contributions to disease, and the possibility for their therapeutic modification.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.014 
PMID: 16891000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Oct;29(10):554-62. Epub 2006 Aug 7.

Ampakines and the threefold path to cognitive enhancement.

Lynch G(1), Gall CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, University of California, Irvine,
CA 92697-4292, USA. glynch@uci.edu

Ampakines are the first peripherally administered drugs that increase excitatory 
monosynaptic responses in the brain. Because of this effect, the compounds
improve communication in complex networks, potently facilitate long-term
potentiation (LTP) and induce the expression of neurotrophic factors. Ampakines
are effective in animal models of neuropsychiatric disorders and have produced
positive results in a small number of human studies. Neurobiological
considerations and modeling studies suggest that the drugs, in addition to their 
effects on disturbed behavior, will alter the encoding and organization of
information in normal brains. Results from physiological and behavioral studies
accord with this prediction. Building on these findings, this article considers
how the threefold effects of ampakines will modify, and enhance, cognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.07.007 
PMID: 16890999  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Sep;29(9):493-5. Epub 2006 Aug 8.

European Brain Council: partnership to promote European and national brain
research.

Olesen J, Freund TF.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.07.008 
PMID: 16893574  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Sep;29(9):518-27. Epub 2006 Aug 1.

The brain as a target of inflammation: common pathways link inflammatory and
neurodegenerative diseases.

Zipp F(1), Aktas O.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroimmunology, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 10098
Berlin, Germany. frauke.zipp@charite.de

Classical knowledge distinguishes between inflammatory and non-inflammatory
diseases of the brain. Either the immune system acts on the CNS and initiates a
damage cascade, as in autoimmune (e.g. multiple sclerosis) and infectious
conditions, or the primary insult is not inflammation but ischemia or
degeneration, as in stroke and Alzheimer's disease, respectively. However, as we 
review here, recent advances have blurred this distinction. On the one hand, the 
classical inflammatory diseases of the brain also exhibit profound and early
neurodegenerative features - remarkably, it has been known for more than a
century that neuronal damage is a key feature of multiple sclerosis pathology,
yet this was neglected until very recently. On the other hand, immune mechanisms 
might set the pace of progressive CNS damage in primary neurodegeneration.
Despite differing initial events, increasing evidence indicates that even in
clinically heterogeneous diseases, there might be common immunological pathways
that result in neurotoxicity and reveal targets for more efficient therapies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.07.006 
PMID: 16879881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Sep;29(9):496-505. Epub 2006 Jul 26.

Different molecular cascades in different sites of the brain control memory
consolidation.

Izquierdo I(1), Bevilaqua LR, Rossato JI, Bonini JS, Medina JH, Cammarota M.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Memoria, Instituto de Pesquisas Biomédicas, Pontifícia Universidade 
Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Hospital Sao Lucas, Av. Ipiranga 6690, 2 Andar,
(90610-000) Porto Alegre, RS, Brasil. izquier@terra.com.br

To understand cognition, it is important to understand how a learned response
becomes a long-lasting memory. This process of memory consolidation has been
modeled extensively using one-trial avoidance learning, in which animals (or
humans) establish a conditioned response by learning to avoid danger in just one 
trial. This relies on molecular events in the CA1 region of the hippocampus that 
resemble those involved in CA1 long-term potentiation (LTP), and it also requires
equivalent events to occur with different timings in the basolateral amygdala and
the entorhinal, parietal and cingulate cortex. Many of these steps are modulated 
by monoaminergic pathways related to the perception of and reaction to emotion,
which at least partly explains why strong and resistant consolidation is typical 
of emotion-laden memories. Thus memory consolidation involves a complex network
of brain systems and serial and parallel molecular events, even for a task as
deceptively simple as one-trial avoidance. We propose that these molecular events
might also be involved in many other memory types in animals and humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.07.005 
PMID: 16872686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Sep;29(9):506-10. Epub 2006 Jul 20.

Microglial senescence: does the brain's immune system have an expiration date?

Streit WJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, PO Box 100244, University of Florida College of
Medicine, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA. streit@mbi.ufl.edu

Microglia are seen as the sentries in the CNS who provide a first line of defense
whenever there is injury or disease. Microglia and related perivascular
macrophages perform various functions, ranging from immunological surveillance to
neuroprotection. Recent work in the aged human brain has provided morphological
evidence of structural deterioration of microglia, and work in rodents suggests
that microglia are subject to replicative senescence (loss of mitotic ability
after repeated rounds of replication). Together these observations raise the
possibility that old age, and perhaps other factors (genetic and epigenetic)
adversely affect viability and self-renewal capacity of microglia, resulting in
the generation of senescent and/or dysfunctional cells. Such attrition of the
brain's immune system could contribute to the development of neurodegenerative
disease by diminishing glial neuroprotection.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.07.001 
PMID: 16859761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Sep;29(9):511-7. Epub 2006 Jul 21.

Neuroethics: a modern context for ethics in neuroscience.

Illes J(1), Bird SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford Center for Biomedical Ethics and Department of Radiology, 701 Welch
Road, A1115, Palo Alto, CA 94304-5748, USA. illes@stanford.edu

Neuroethics, a recently modernized field at the intersection of bioethics and
neuroscience, is founded on centuries of discussion of the ethical issues
associated with mind and behavior. Broadly defined, neuroethics is concerned with
ethical, legal and social policy implications of neuroscience, and with aspects
of neuroscience research itself. Advances in neuroscience increasingly challenge 
long-held views of the self and the individual's relationship to society.
Neuroscience also has led to innovations in clinical medicine that have not only 
therapeutic but also non-therapeutic dimensions that extend well beyond
previously charted boundaries. The exponential increase in cross-disciplinary
research, the commercialization of cognitive neuroscience, the impetus for
training in ethics, and the increased attention being paid to public
understanding of science all illuminate the important role of neuroethics in
neuroscience.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.07.002 
PMCID: PMC1656950
PMID: 16859760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Sep;29(9):528-35. Epub 2006 Jul 20.

Autophagy in neurodegenerative disease: friend, foe or turncoat?

Nixon RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Dementia Research, Nathan S. Kline Institute, Orangeburg, NY 10962,
USA. nixon@nki.rfmh.org

Autophagy, a lysosomal pathway for degrading organelles and long-lived proteins, 
is becoming recognized as a key adaptive response that can preclude death in
stressed or diseased cells. However, during development strong induction of
autophagy in specific cell populations mediates a type of programmed cell death
that has distinctive 'autophagic' morphology and a requirement for autophagy
activity. The recent identification of autophagosomes in neurons in a growing
number of neurodegenerative disorders has, therefore, sparked controversy about
whether these structures are contributing to neuronal cell death or protecting
against it. Emerging evidence supports the view that induction of autophagy is a 
neuroprotective response and that inadequate or defective autophagy, rather than 
excessive autophagy, promotes neuronal cell death in most of these disorders. In 
this review, we consider possible mechanisms underlying autophagy-associated cell
death and their relationship to pathways mediating apoptosis and necrosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.07.003 
PMID: 16859759  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Sep;29(9):536-46. Epub 2006 Jul 21.

Brain-machine interfaces: past, present and future.

Lebedev MA(1), Nicolelis MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Center for Neuroengineering, Duke University,
Durham, NC 27710, USA.

Since the original demonstration that electrical activity generated by ensembles 
of cortical neurons can be employed directly to control a robotic manipulator,
research on brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) has experienced an impressive growth.
Today BMIs designed for both experimental and clinical studies can translate raw 
neuronal signals into motor commands that reproduce arm reaching and hand
grasping movements in artificial actuators. Clearly, these developments hold
promise for the restoration of limb mobility in paralyzed subjects. However, as
we review here, before this goal can be reached several bottlenecks have to be
passed. These include designing a fully implantable biocompatible recording
device, further developing real-time computational algorithms, introducing a
method for providing the brain with sensory feedback from the actuators, and
designing and building artificial prostheses that can be controlled directly by
brain-derived signals. By reaching these milestones, future BMIs will be able to 
drive and control revolutionary prostheses that feel and act like the human arm.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.07.004 
PMID: 16859758  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Aug;29(8):466-73. Epub 2006 Jul 13.

Extracting 3D structure from disparity.

Orban GA(1), Janssen P, Vogels R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorium voor Neuro- en Psychofysiologie, K.U. Leuven, Medical School,
Campus Gasthuisberg, Herestraat 49/1021, BE-3000 Leuven, Belgium.
guy.orban@med.kuleuven.be

The neural mechanisms of stereoscopic 3D shape perception have only recently been
investigated. Here we review the two cortical regions in which these mechanisms
have been studied so far in macaques: a small subpart of inferotemporal cortex
called TEs, and the caudal intraparietal (CIP) region. Neurons in TEs respond
selectively to the orientation and curvature in depth of stereoscopic surfaces
and this region provides a detailed 3D shape description of surface boundaries
and surface content. This description is evoked only by binocular stimuli in
which subjects see depth and it does not vary if depth is specified by different 
cues. Neurons in CIP are a selective for orientation in depth of surfaces and
elongated objects, and their responses are also unaffected by changes in depth
cues. Thus, stereoscopic 3D shape is processed in both the dorsal,
occipito-parietal and the ventral, occipito-temporal streams.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.012 
PMID: 16842865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Aug;29(8):429-37. Epub 2006 Jul 13.

Slow-waves in the olfactory system: an olfactory perspective on cortical rhythms.

Fontanini A(1), Bower JM.

Author information: 
(1)Volen National Center for Complex Systems and Department of Psychology, MS
013, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02493, USA. alfredof@brandeis.edu

Over the past few years, it has become clear that oscillatory dynamics of
cortical networks are closely involved in sensory coding, attention, memory and
sleep. Although most experimental and theoretical studies have focused on the
neocortex, we believe that progress in understanding cortical oscillations can be
advanced by also considering the olfactory system--which shares many basic
properties with the neocortex and shows similar oscillatory patterns. Besides
offering the advantage of a greater experimental tractability, the olfactory
cortex might prove to be instrumental in uncovering general functional principles
of neocortical oscillations, by virtue of the potentially important role of
olfaction during neocortical evolution. In this article, we illustrate how such
an evolution-based comparative approach can provide novel insights into
neocortical slow-wave sleep oscillations and their relationship to respiration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.013 
PMID: 16842864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Aug;29(8):474-80. Epub 2006 Jul 3.

Intra-individual variability in behavior: links to brain structure,
neurotransmission and neuronal activity.

MacDonald SW(1), Nyberg L, Bäckman L.

Author information: 
(1)Aging Research Center, Karolinska Institutet, Gävlegatan 16, S-113 30
Stockholm, Sweden. stuart.macdonald@ki.se

Intra-individual variability reflects a transient, within-person change in
behavioral performance. It is a common component of aging-related cognitive
decline and the behavioral changes associated with neurodegenerative and other
brain-related disorders such as traumatic brain injury and schizophrenia.
Behavioral changes within an individual can reflect alterations at a systems or a
cellular level in the brain, and monitoring intra-individual variability can
therefore provide a warning of underlying pathology. Despite frequent reports of 
intra-individual variability, there is little synthesis, and no direct
examination of the neural underpinnings. Here, we integrate seminal findings from
cognitive research across lifespans of individuals, and also neuropsychological
and neurobiological findings, to identify key questions and some potential
answers, and to set challenges for fostering future research into
intra-individual variability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.011 
PMID: 16820224  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Aug;29(8):444-51. Epub 2006 Jun 27.

Blueprints for behavior: genetic specification of neural circuitry for innate
behaviors.

Manoli DS(1), Meissner GW, Baker BS.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Scientist Training Program, Neurosciences Program and Department of
Biological Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-5020, USA.

Innate behaviors offer a unique opportunity to use genetic analysis to dissect
and characterize the neural substrates of complex behavioral programs. Courtship 
in Drosophila involves a complex series of stereotyped behaviors that include
numerous exchanges of multimodal sensory information over time. As we will
discuss in this review, recent work has demonstrated that male-specific
expression of Fruitless transcription factors (Fru(M) proteins) is necessary and 
sufficient to confer the potential for male courtship behaviors. Fru(M) factors
program neurons of the male central and peripheral nervous systems whose function
is dedicated to sexual behaviors. This circuitry seems to integrate sensory
information to define behavioral states and regulate conserved neural elements
for sex-specific behavioral output. The principles that govern the circuitry
specified by Fru(M) expression might also operate in subcortical networks that
govern innate behaviors in mammals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.006 
PMID: 16806511  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Aug;29(8):452-8. Epub 2006 Jun 30.

Synaptic plasticity: one STEP at a time.

Braithwaite SP(1), Paul S, Nairn AC, Lombroso PJ.

Author information: 
(1)AGY Therapeutics Inc., 270 E. Grand Avenue, South San Francisco, CA 94080,
USA. spbraithwaite@sbcglobal.net

Striatal enriched tyrosine phosphatase (STEP) has recently been identified as a
crucial player in the regulation of synaptic function. It is restricted to
neurons within the CNS and acts by downregulating the activity of MAP kinases,
the tyrosine kinase Fyn and NMDA receptors. By modulating these substrates, STEP 
acts on several parallel pathways that impact upon the progression of synaptic
plasticity. Here, we review recent advances that demonstrate the importance of
STEP in normal cognitive function, and its possible involvement in cognitive
disorders such as Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.007 
PMCID: PMC1630769
PMID: 16806510  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Aug;29(8):438-43. Epub 2006 Jun 27.

Inducible proteopathies.

Walker LC(1), Levine H 3rd, Mattson MP, Jucker M.

Author information: 
(1)Yerkes National Primate Research Center and Department of Neurology, Emory
University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. lary.walker@emory.edu

Numerous degenerative diseases are characterized by the aberrant polymerization
and accumulation of specific proteins. These proteopathies include neurological
disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease 
and the prion diseases, in addition to diverse systemic disorders, particularly
the amyloidoses. The prion diseases have been shown to be transmissible by an
alternative conformation of the normal cellular prion protein. Other
proteopathies have been thought to be non-transmissible, but there is growing
evidence that some systemic and cerebral amyloidoses can be induced by exposure
of susceptible hosts to cognate molecular templates. As we review here, the
mechanistic similarities among these diseases provide unprecedented opportunities
for elucidating the induction of protein misfolding and assembly in vivo, and for
developing an integrated therapeutic approach to degenerative proteopathies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.010 
PMID: 16806508  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Aug;29(8):459-65. Epub 2006 Jun 27.

alphaCaMKII autophosphorylation: a fast track to memory.

Irvine EE(1), von Hertzen LS, Plattner F, Giese KP.

Author information: 
(1)Wolfson Institute for Biomedical Research, University College London, Gower
Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Alpha Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (alphaCaMKII), the major synaptic
protein in the forebrain, can switch into a state of autonomous activity upon
autophosphorylation. It has been proposed that alphaCaMKII autophosphorylation
mediates long-term memory (LTM) storage. However, recent evidence shows that
synaptic stimulation and behavioural training only transiently increase the
autonomous alphaCaMKII activity, implicating alphaCaMKII autophosphorylation in
LTM formation rather than storage. Consistent with this, mutant mice deficient in
alphaCaMKII autophosphorylation can store LTM after a massed training protocol,
but cannot form LTM after a single trial. Here, we review evidence that the role 
of alphaCaMKII autophosphorylation is in fact to enable LTM formation after a
single training trial, possibly by regulating LTM consolidation-specific
transcription.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.009 
PMID: 16806507  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Aug;29(8):481-91. Epub 2006 Jun 30.

D-serine signalling in the brain: friend and foe.

Martineau M(1), Baux G, Mothet JP.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie Morphofonctionnelle, INSERM U378, 146 Rue Léo
Saignat, 33077 Bordeaux, France.

Neurons and glia talk to each other at synapses. Glia sense the level of synaptic
activity and consequently regulate its efficacy via the release of
neuromodulators. One such glia-derived modulator is D-serine, an amino acid that 
serves as an endogenous ligand for the strychnine-insensitive glycine-binding
site of NMDA glutamate receptors. Here, we provide an overview of recent findings
on the mechanisms of its synthesis, release and clearance at synapses, with an
emphasis on the dichotomy of behaviour of this novel messenger in the brain. The 
discovery of the good and ugly faces of this gliotransmitter is an important
issue of modern neuroscience that has repercussions for the treatment of brain
disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.008 
PMID: 16806506  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jul;29(7):367-73. Epub 2006 Jul 3.

Nature and nurture in language acquisition: anatomical and functional
brain-imaging studies in infants.

Dehaene-Lambertz G(1), Hertz-Pannier L, Dubois J.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U562, Service Hospitalier Frédéric Joliot, CEA/DRM/DSV, 4 Place du
Général Leclerc, 91401 Orsay Cedex, France. gdehaene@shfj.cea.fr

Speech processing in adults relies on precise and specialized networks, located
primarily in the left hemisphere. Behavioral studies in infants indicate that a
considerable amount of language learning already takes place in the first year of
life in the domains of phonology, prosody and word segmentation. Thanks to
neuroimaging, we can move beyond behavioral methods and examine how the infant
brain processes verbal stimuli before learning. These studies reveal a structural
and functional organization close to what is described in adults and suggest a
strong bias for speech processing in these regions that might guide infants as
they discover the properties of their native language, although no evidence can
be provided as yet for speech specificity of such networks. This review is part
of the INMED/TINS special issue "Nature and nurture in brain development and
neurological disorders", based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS
symposium (http://inmednet.com/).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.05.011 
PMID: 16815562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jul;29(7):349-58. Epub 2006 Jun 30.

Searching for ways out of the autism maze: genetic, epigenetic and environmental 
clues.

Persico AM(1), Bourgeron T.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Psychiatry and Neurogenetics, University Campus
Bio-Medico, Via Longoni 83, I-00155, Rome, Italy. a.persico@unicampus.it

Our understanding of human disorders that affect higher cognitive functions has
greatly advanced in recent decades, and over 20 genes associated with
non-syndromic mental retardation have been identified during the past 15 years.
However, proteins encoded by "cognition genes" have such diverse
neurodevelopmental functions that delineating specific pathogenetic pathways
still poses a tremendous challenge. In this review, we summarize genetic,
epigenetic and environmental contributions to neurodevelopmental alterations that
either cause or confer vulnerability to autism, a disease primarily affecting
social cognition. Taken together, these results begin to provide a unifying view 
of complex pathogenetic pathways that are likely to lead to autism spectrum
disorders through altered neurite morphology, synaptogenesis and cell migration. 
This review is part of the INMED/TINS special issue "Nature and nurture in brain 
development and neurological disorders", based on presentations at the annual
INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com/).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.05.010 
PMID: 16808981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jul;29(7):398-406. Epub 2006 Jun 27.

Viral infections in the developing and mature brain.

van den Pol AN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Yale University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar
Street, New Haven, CT 06520, USA. anthony.vandenpol@yale.edu

A number of different RNA and DNA viruses can invade the brain and cause
neurological dysfunction. These range from the tiny polio picornavirus, which has
only 7kb of RNA genetic code that preferentially infects motor neurons, to the
relatively large cytomegalovirus, which has >100 genes in its 235kb DNA genome
and causes various neurological problems in the developing brain but is
comparatively harmless to adults. This brief overview of some aspects of
neurovirology addresses the complex problems that underlie an appreciation of the
contribution of viral infections to brain disease. [This review is part of the
INMED/TINS special issue "Nature and nurture in brain development and
neurological disorders", based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS
symposium (http://inmednet.com/).]

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.002 
PMID: 16806513  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jul;29(7):382-90. Epub 2006 Jun 27.

Dynamic auditory processing, musical experience and language development.

Tallal P(1), Gaab N.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers University, Newark, 
NJ 07102, USA. tallal@axon.rutgers.edu

Children with language-learning impairments (LLI) form a heterogeneous population
with the majority having both spoken and written language deficits as well as
sensorimotor deficits, specifically those related to dynamic processing. Research
has focused on whether or not sensorimotor deficits, specifically auditory
spectrotemporal processing deficits, cause phonological deficit, leading to
language and reading impairments. New trends aimed at resolving this question
include prospective longitudinal studies of genetically at-risk infants,
electrophysiological and neuroimaging studies, and studies aimed at evaluating
the effects of auditory training (including musical training) on brain
organization for language. Better understanding of the origins of developmental
LLI will advance our understanding of the neurobiological mechanisms underlying
individual differences in language development and lead to more effective
educational and intervention strategies. This review is part of the INMED/TINS
special issue "Nature and nurture in brain development and neurological
disorders", based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS symposium
(http://inmednet.com/).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.003 
PMID: 16806512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jul;29(7):359-66. Epub 2006 Jun 27.

Autism, the superior temporal sulcus and social perception.

Zilbovicius M(1), Meresse I, Chabane N, Brunelle F, Samson Y, Boddaert N.

Author information: 
(1)URM 0205 Brain Imaging in Psychiatry, INSERM-CEA, Service Hospitalier Frédéric
Joliot, CEA, 4 Place du General Leclerc, Orsay 91406, France. mozilbo@gmail.com

The most common clinical sign of autism spectrum disorders (ASD) is social
interaction impairment, which is associated with communication deficits and
stereotyped behaviors. Based on recent brain-imaging results, our hypothesis is
that abnormalities in the superior temporal sulcus (STS) are highly implicated in
ASD. STS abnormalities are characterized by decreased gray matter concentration, 
rest hypoperfusion and abnormal activation during social tasks. STS anatomical
and functional anomalies occurring during early brain development could
constitute the first step in the cascade of neural dysfunction underlying ASD. We
will focus this review on the STS, which has been highly implicated in social
cognition. We will review recent data on the contribution of the STS to normal
social cognition and review brain-imaging data implicating this area in ASD. This
review is part of the INMED/TINS special issue "Nature and nurture in brain
development and neurological disorders", based on presentations at the annual
INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com/).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.004 
PMID: 16806505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jul;29(7):419-27. Epub 2006 Jun 21.

The dark side of high-frequency oscillations in the developing brain.

Le Van Quyen M(1), Khalilov I, Ben-Ari Y.

Author information: 
(1)LENA-CNRS UPR640, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, Hôpital de la Salpêtrière,
47 Boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75651 Paris Cedex 13, France.

Adult brain networks generate a wide range of oscillations. Some of these are
behaviourally relevant, whereas others occur during seizures and other
pathological conditions. This raises the question of how physiological
oscillations differ from pathogenic ones. In this review, this issue is discussed
from a developmental standpoint. Indeed, both epileptic and physiological
high-frequency oscillations (HFOs) appear progressively during maturation, and it
is therefore possible to determine how this program corresponds to maturation of 
the neuronal populations that generate these oscillations. We review here
important differences in the development of neuronal populations that might
contribute to their different oscillatory properties. In particular, at an early 
stage, the density of glutamatergic synapses is too low for physiological HFOs
but an additional drive can be provided by excitatory GABA, triggering epileptic 
HFOs and the cascades involved in long-lasting epileptogenic transformations.
This review is part of the INMED/TINS special issue "Nature and nurture in brain 
development and neurological disorders", based on presentations at the annual
INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com/).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.06.001 
PMID: 16793147  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jul;29(7):391-7.

Human epilepsies: interaction of genetic and acquired factors.

Berkovic SF(1), Mulley JC, Scheffer IE, Petrou S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine and Epilepsy Research, University of Melbourne, Austin 
Health, Heidelberg West, Victoria 3081, Australia. s.berkovic@unimelb.edu.au

Epilepsies, once regarded as due to demoniacal possession, can have both genetic 
and acquired causes, with interaction of these factors in many cases. To date,
nearly all the genes discovered to be involved in human epilepsies encode
subunits of ion channels, both voltage-gated and ligand-gated. Established
acquired causes include serious brain trauma, stroke, tumours and infective
lesions. Thus, in terms of exploring the neurobiology of "nature and nurture" in 
disease, the epilepsies are an excellent paradigm. Here, we review the evidence
and discuss the possibility that ion channels are a common biological substrate
for both genetic and acquired epilepsies. This review is part of the INMED/TINS
special issue "Nature and nurture in brain development and neurological
disorders", based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS symposium
(http://inmednet.com/).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.05.009 
PMID: 16769131  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jul;29(7):374-81. Epub 2006 Jun 5.

Human memory development and its dysfunction after early hippocampal injury.

de Haan M(1), Mishkin M, Baldeweg T, Vargha-Khadem F.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience Unit, University College London Institute
of Child Health, 30 Guilford Street, London WC1N 1EH, UK. m.de-haan@ich.ucl.ac.uk

Cognitive memory involves long-term memories for facts (semantic memory) and
personal experiences (episodic memory) that can be brought to mind. There is
consensus that the hippocampus and related medial temporal lobe (MTL) structures 
are crucial for adult cognitive memory, but much less is known about their
contribution to memory during infancy and childhood. We argue that the MTL is
involved in memory from early in life, supporting recognition memory within the
first postnatal months and recall memory within the first year. We propose that
normal development involves a sequence in which a form of semantic-like memory
emerges first, whereas the characteristics of episodic memory develop only later 
with progressive development of the hippocampus. Early bilateral injury to the
hippocampus disrupts this normal pattern such that memory skills cannot develop
beyond the stage of semantic memories. This review is part of the INMED/TINS
special issue "Nature and nurture in brain development and neurological
disorders", based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS symposium
(http://inmednet.com/).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.05.008 
PMID: 16750273  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jul;29(7):407-13. Epub 2006 May 19.

The multipolar stage and disruptions in neuronal migration.

LoTurco JJ(1), Bai J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Neurobiology, 75 North Eagleville Road U-3156,
University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT 06269, USA. loturco@uconn.edu

The genetic basis is now known for several disorders of neuronal migration in the
developing cerebral cortex. Identification of the cellular processes mediated by 
the implicated genes is revealing crucial stages of neuronal migration and has
the potential to reveal common cellular causes of neuronal migration disorders.
We hypothesize that a newly recognized morphological stage of neuronal migration,
the multipolar stage, is vulnerable and is disrupted in several disorders of
neocortical development. The multipolar stage occurs as bipolar progenitor cells 
become radially migrating neurons. Several studies using in utero electroporation
and RNAi have revealed that transition out of the multipolar stage depends on the
function of filamin A, LIS1 and DCX. Mutations in the genes encoding these
proteins in humans cause distinct neuronal migration disorders, including
periventricular nodular heterotopia, subcortical band heterotopia and
lissencephaly. The multipolar stage therefore seems to be a critical point of
migration control and a vulnerable target for disruption of neocortical
development. This review is part of the INMED/TINS special issue "Nature and
nurture in brain development and neurological disorders", based on presentations 
at the annual INMED/TINS symposium (http://inmednet.com/).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.05.006 
PMID: 16713637  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jul;29(7):414-8. Epub 2006 May 19.

Early patterns of electrical activity in the developing cerebral cortex of humans
and rodents.

Khazipov R(1), Luhmann HJ.

Author information: 
(1)INMED, INSERM U29, 163 route de Luminy, 13273 Marseille, France.
khazipov@inmed.univ-mrs.fr

During prenatal and early postnatal development, the cerebral cortex exhibits
synchronized oscillatory network activity that is believed to be essential for
the generation of neuronal cortical circuits. The nature and functional role of
these early activity patterns are of central interest in neuroscience. Much of
the research is performed in rodents and in vitro, but how closely do these model
systems relate to the human fetal brain? In this review, we compare observations 
in humans with in vivo and in vitro rodent data, focusing on particular
oscillatory activity patterns that share many common features: delta brushes,
spindle bursts and spindle-like oscillations. There is considerable evidence that
the basic functional properties of immature cortical networks are conserved
through mammalian evolution, making the neonatal rodent an excellent model for
studying early cortical activity and associated plasticity during the
developmental period corresponding to the human fetal stage. This review is part 
of the INMED/TINS special issue "Nature and nurture in brain development and
neurological disorders", based on presentations at the annual INMED/TINS
symposium (http://inmednet.com/).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.05.007 
PMID: 16713634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jun;29(6):295-7. Epub 2006 May 23.

The neural substrates of cognition.

Sherman SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Pharmacology and Physiology, University of
Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. msherman@bsd.uchicago.edu

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.05.005 
PMID: 16716413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jun;29(6):339-45. Epub 2006 May 22.

The problem of neuronal cell types: a physiological genomics approach.

Nelson SB(1), Sugino K, Hempel CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and National Center for Behavioral Genomics, Brandeis
University, MS 008, 415 South Street, Waltham, MA 02454-9110, USA.
nelson@brandeis.edu

Neural circuits within the vertebrate brain are composed of highly diverse cell
types. The exact extent of this diversity is a matter of continuing debate. For
example, do cortical interneurons comprise a few, dozens or >100 distinct cell
types? Recently, several groups have used microarrays to measure genome-wide gene
expression profiles for specific neuronal cell types. These methods can offer an 
objective basis for neuronal classification. In this review, we argue that this
approach should now be carried out more broadly and that it should be coupled to 
large-scale efforts to generate mouse driver lines in which tools for genetic
manipulation, such as the Cre recombinase, are expressed in identified cell types
within the brain. This would enable neuroscientists to begin to investigate more 
systematically the roles of specific genes in establishing particular cellular
phenotypes, and also the roles of particular cell types within brain circuits.
This review is part of the TINS special issue on The Neural Substrates of
Cognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.05.004 
PMID: 16714064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jun;29(6):330-8. Epub 2006 May 19.

Building new motor responses: eyelid conditioning revisited.

Delgado-García JM(1), Gruart A.

Author information: 
(1)División de Neurociencias, Universidad Pablo de Olavide, Ctra. de Utrera, Km. 
1, 41013-Seville, Spain. jmdelgar@upo.es

Neural processes underlying memory and learning should be studied under the best 
possible physiological conditions - namely, in alert behaving animals. The
classical conditioning of the nictitating membrane and eyelid response is a
widely used experimental model for studying the neural bases of motor learning in
mammals. Nevertheless, information is still needed on the functional aspects,
taking place simultaneously in different cerebral structures, that underlie
acquisition, extinction and recall of new motor and cognitive abilities. Here, we
review recent data on the neural activity generated in selected brain sites
(facial motor nuclei, deep cerebellar nuclei and the hippocampus) in simultaneity
with the process of learning. The use of modern technologies for the proper
recording of eyelid movements, for the identification of the recorded units, and 
for the activation of selective synaptic processes during the learning situation 
enables a precise redefinition of the role played by these neural structures in
such associative learning. This review is part of the TINS special issue on The
Neural Substrates of Cognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.05.003 
PMID: 16713636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jun;29(6):307-16. Epub 2006 May 19.

Always returning: feedback and sensory processing in visual cortex and thalamus.

Sillito AM(1), Cudeiro J, Jones HE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Visual Science, Institute of Ophthalmology, University College
London, 11-43 Bath Street, London EC1V 9EL, UK. a.sillito@ucl.ac.uk

Feedback projections are an integral part of the mammalian visual system.
Although it is tempting to relegate them to a subsidiary role in visual
processing, because their supposed latency and lag might appear to be
unfavourable for an involvement in fast processing, this is a dangerous
simplification. Certainly for the world in motion, feedback from higher motion
areas can influence the transfer of ascending input when, or even before, the
input arrives. Here, we consider the circuit formed by layer 6 feedback cells in 
the visual cortex and how this straddles the retinothalamic and thalamocortical
transfer of visual input. We discuss its links to feedback from the cortical
motion area MT (V5), and suggest that motion perception involves a dynamic
interplay between MT, V1 and the thalamus. This review is part of the TINS
special issue on The Neural Substrates of Cognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.05.001 
PMID: 16713635  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jun;29(6):298-306. Epub 2006 May 19.

Looking back: corticothalamic feedback and early visual processing.

Cudeiro J(1), Sillito AM.

Author information: 
(1)NEUROcom (Neuroscience and Motor Control Group), Department of Medicine,
University of A Coruña, Campus de Oza, 15006 A Coruña, Spain. jcud@udc.es

Although once regarded as a simple sensory relay on the way to the cortex, it is 
increasingly apparent that the thalamus has a role in the ongoing
moment-by-moment processing of sensory input and in cognition. This involves
extensive corticofugal feedback connections and the interplay of these with the
local thalamic circuitry and the other converging inputs. Here, using the feline 
visual system as the primary model, some of the latest developments in this field
are reviewed and placed in the perspective of an integrated view of system
function. Cortical feedback mediated by ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate
receptors, and effects mediated by the neuromodulator nitric oxide, all have a
role in integrating the thalamic mechanism into the cortical circuit. The
essential point is that the perspective of higher-level sensory mechanisms shifts
and modulates the thalamic circuitry in ways that optimize abstraction of a
meaningful representation of the external world. This review is part of the TINS 
special issue on The Neural Substrates of Cognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.05.002 
PMID: 16712965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jun;29(6):317-22. Epub 2006 May 11.

Feature-based attention in visual cortex.

Maunsell JH(1), Treue S.

Author information: 
(1)HHMI and Baylor College of Medicine, Department of Neuroscience, Baylor
College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza S-603, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
maunsell@bcm.edu

Although most studies of visual attention have examined the effects of shifting
attention between different locations in the visual field, attention can also be 
directed to particular visual features, such as a color, orientation or a
direction of motion. Single-unit studies have shown that attention to a feature
modulates neuronal signals in a range of areas in monkey visual cortex. The
location-independent property of feature-based attention makes it particularly
well suited to modify selectively the neural representations of stimuli or parts 
within complex visual scenes that match the currently attended feature. This
review is part of the TINS special issue on The Neural Substrates of Cognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.04.001 
PMID: 16697058  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jun;29(6):323-9. Epub 2006 May 11.

Plasticity and specificity of cortical processing networks.

Majewska AK(1), Sur M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, University of Rochester Medical
Center, Rochester, NY 14642, USA. ania_majewska@urmc.rochester.edu

The cerebral cortex is subdivided into discrete functional areas that are defined
by specific properties, including the presence of different cell types, molecular
expression patterns, microcircuitry and long-range connectivity. These properties
enable different areas of cortex to carry out distinct functions. Emerging data
argue that the particular structure and identity of cortical areas derives not
only from specific inputs but also from unique processing networks. The aim of
this review is to summarize current information on the interplay of intrinsic
molecular cues with activity patterns that are driven by sensory experience and
shape cortical networks as they develop, emphasizing synaptic connections in
networks that process vision. This review is part of the TINS special issue on
The Neural Substrates of Cognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.04.002 
PMID: 16697057  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Trends Neurosci. 2006 May;29(5):286-93. Epub 2006 Apr 17.

LRRK2 in Parkinson's disease: protein domains and functional insights.

Mata IF(1), Wedemeyer WJ, Farrer MJ, Taylor JP, Gallo KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Jacksonville, FL 
32224, USA.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common motor neurodegenerative disease.
Mutations in the gene encoding leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) have been
linked recently with autosomal-dominant parkinsonism that is clinically
indistinguishable from typical, idiopathic, late-onset PD. Thus, the protein
LRRK2 has emerged as a promising therapeutic target for treatment of PD. LRRK2 is
extraordinarily large and complex, with multiple enzymatic and
protein-interaction domains, each of which is targeted by pathogenic mutations in
familial PD. This review places the PD-associated mutations of LRRK2 in a
structural and functional framework, with the ultimate aim of deciphering the
molecular basis of LRRK2-associated pathogenesis. This, in turn, should advance
our understanding and treatment of familial and idiopathic PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.03.006 
PMID: 16616379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Trends Neurosci. 2006 May;29(5):263-71. Epub 2006 Apr 3.

Cell survival matters: docosahexaenoic acid signaling, neuroprotection and
photoreceptors.

Bazan NG(1).

Author information: 
(1)LSU Neuroscience Center of Excellence and Department of Ophthalmology,
Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center School of Medicine in New
Orleans, LA 70112, USA. nbazan@lsuhsc.edu

Recent data have provided important clues about the molecular mechanisms
underlying certain retinal degenerative diseases, including retinitis pigmentosa 
and age-related macular degeneration. Photoreceptor cell degeneration is a
feature common to these diseases, and the death of these cells in many instances 
seems to involve the closely associated retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells.
Under normal circumstances, both cell types are subject to potentially damaging
stimuli (e.g. sunlight and high oxygen tension). However, the mechanism or
mechanisms by which homeostasis is maintained in this part of the eye, which is
crucial for sight, are an unsolved riddle. The omega-3 fatty acid family member
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), which is enriched in these cells, is the precursor of
neuroprotectin D1 (NPD1). NPD1 inhibits oxidative-stress-mediated proinflammatory
gene induction and apoptosis, and consequently promotes RPE cell survival. This
enhanced understanding of the molecular basis of endogenous anti-inflammatory and
neuroprotective signaling in the RPE presents an opportunity for the development 
of therapies for retinal degenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.03.005 
PMID: 16580739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Trends Neurosci. 2006 May;29(5):241-9. Epub 2006 Mar 30.

Is brain estradiol a hormone or a neurotransmitter?

Balthazart J(1), Ball GF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology, University of Liège, B-4000
Liège, Belgium. jbalthazart@ulg.ac.be

Mounting evidence indicates that, besides their well-known hormonal mode of
action at the genetic level, estrogens such as 17beta-estradiol also influence
brain function by direct effects on neuronal membranes. Experimentally induced
rapid changes in estradiol bioavailability in the brain have been shown to alter 
the expression of male sexual behavior significantly within minutes--probably too
quickly to be accounted for by conventional genetic mechanisms. In parallel,
recent studies indicate that aromatase, the enzyme that converts testosterone to 
estradiol in the brain, is expressed in presynaptic terminals and modulated
within minutes by Ca(2+)-dependent phosphorylation. In this article, we develop
the hypothesis that brain estrogens display many, if not all, functional
characteristics of neuromodulators or even neurotransmitters.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.03.004 
PMID: 16580076  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Trends Neurosci. 2006 May;29(5):257-62. Epub 2006 Mar 27.

Emerging challenges of assigning P2X7 receptor function and immunoreactivity in
neurons.

Anderson CM(1), Nedergaard M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University of Manitoba and
Division of Neurodegenerative Disorders, St Boniface Hospital Research Center,
Winnipeg, Canada R2H 2A6. canderson@sbrc.ca

Currently available antibodies to the P2X(7) receptor are unreliable determinants
of neuronal P2X(7) immunoreactivity, owing to staining of a "P2X(7)-like" protein
that is not eliminated by legitimate P2X(7) gene-knockout approaches. Despite
this, compelling electrophysiological and pharmacological data strongly support a
role for P2X(7) receptors in neuronal function and injury. A major priority for
the field now is to identify the neuronal "P2X(7)-like" protein and develop
effective antibodies selective for neuronal P2X(7) immunoreactivity. Until this
occurs, we are dependent on rigorous application of multiple pharmacological
criteria for attribution of neuronal function to P2X(7) receptors in non-human
tissues, including greater activity in response to BzATP than to ATP, sensitivity
to blockade by nanomolar concentrations of Brilliant Blue-G, irreversible
antagonism by periodate-oxidized ATP, and lack of inhibition by suramin.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.03.003 
PMID: 16564580  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Trends Neurosci. 2006 May;29(5):280-5. Epub 2006 Mar 20.

The X11 proteins, Abeta production and Alzheimer's disease.

Miller CC(1), McLoughlin DM, Lau KF, Tennant ME, Rogelj B.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Neurodegeneration Research, Departments of Neuroscience and
Section of Old Age Psychiatry PO37, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College, De
Crespigny Park, Denmark Hill, London SE5 8AF, UK. chris.miller@iop.kcl.ac.uk

Cerebral deposition of amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) within neuritic plaques is a 
hallmark pathology of Alzheimer's disease. It is now generally believed that the 
development of this pathology is central to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's
disease. As such, inhibiting Abeta deposition or removing Abeta deposits once
they are formed represent therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease. Abeta is
derived from a precursor, the amyloid precursor protein (APP), and APP binds to
the X11 family of adaptor proteins. Studies from several laboratories have now
shown that X11alpha and X11beta (the two neuronal X11s) inhibit APP processing
and Abeta production. Exactly how this is achieved is not yet known but recent
studies in which other X11 binding partners have been identified are beginning to
reveal potential mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.03.001 
PMID: 16545469  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Trends Neurosci. 2006 May;29(5):272-9. Epub 2006 Mar 20.

Parallel incentive processing: an integrated view of amygdala function.

Balleine BW(1), Killcross S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and the Brain Research Institute, University of
California-Los Angeles, Box 951563, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1563, USA.
balleine@psych.ucla.edu

The amygdala is a heterogeneous structure that has been implicated in a wide
variety of functions, most notably in fear conditioning. From this research, an
influential serial model of amygdala processes has emerged in which aversive
learning is mediated by the amygdala basolateral nucleus whereas performance, in 
this case of various defensive reflexes, is mediated by the central nucleus. By
contrast, recent evidence from appetitive conditioning studies suggests that the 
basolateral and central nuclei operate in parallel to mediate distinct incentive 
processes: the basolateral nucleus encodes emotional events with reference to
their particular sensory-specific features, whereas the central nucleus encodes
their more general motivational or affective significance. Given that there is
little if any direct behavioral evidence for the serial model, we suggest that
more attention should be given to the claims of the parallel view.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.03.002 
PMID: 16545468  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Trends Neurosci. 2006 May;29(5):250-6. Epub 2006 Mar 10.

Adaptation: from single cells to BOLD signals.

Krekelberg B(1), Boynton GM, van Wezel RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers University, 197
University Avenue, Newark, NJ 07102, USA. bart@rutgers.edu

Functional magnetic resonance imaging adaptation (fMRIa) is an increasingly
popular method that aims to provide insight into the functional properties of
subpopulations of neurons within an imaging voxel. The technique relies on the
assumption that neural adaptation reduces activity when two successive stimuli
activate the same subpopulation but not when they stimulate different
subpopulations. Here, we assess the validity of fMRIa by comparing single-cell
recordings with functional imaging of orientation, motion and face processing. We
find that fMRIa provides novel insight into neural representations in the human
brain. However, network responses in general and adaptation in particular are
more complex than is often assumed, and an unequivocal interpretation of fMRIa
results can be achieved only with great care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.02.008 
PMID: 16529826  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Apr;29(4):233-40. Epub 2006 Mar 7.

Large-scale mutagenesis and phenotypic screens for the nervous system and
behavior in mice.

Vitaterna MH(1), Pinto LH, Takahashi JS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Functional Genomics and Department of Neurobiology and Physiology, 
Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208, USA.

Significant developments have occurred in our understanding of the mammalian
genome thanks to informatics, expression profiling and sequencing of the human
and rodent genomes. However, although these facets of genomic analysis are being 
addressed, analysis of in vivo gene function remains a formidable task.
Evaluation of the phenotype of mutants provides powerful access to gene function,
and this approach is particularly relevant to the nervous system and behavior.
Here, we discuss the complementary mouse genetic approaches of gene-driven,
targeted mutagenesis and phenotype-driven, chemical mutagenesis. We highlight an 
NIH-supported large-scale effort to use phenotype-driven mutagenesis screens to
identify mouse mutants with neural and behavioral alterations. Such single-gene
mutations can then be used for gene identification using positional candidate
gene-cloning methods.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.02.006 
PMCID: PMC3761413
PMID: 16519954  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Apr;29(4):192-9. Epub 2006 Mar 7.

Task-specific hand dystonia: can too much plasticity be bad for you?

Quartarone A(1), Siebner HR, Rothwell JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Psychiatric and Anaethesiological Sciences,
University of Messina, 98125 Messina, Italy. angelo.quartarone@unime.it

Patients with occupational hand dystonias have task-specific involuntary
co-contraction and overflow of activity to inappropriate muscles. This interferes
with highly skilled movements such as handwriting (writer's cramp) or playing a
musical instrument (musician's cramp). Transcranial stimulation methods that
probe mechanisms of synaptic plasticity in the motor cortex show an abnormal
modifiability of sensorimotor circuits in patients with writer's cramp, probably 
because homeostatic control of the range of modification is deficient. We argue
that during skilled motor practice, this leads to an excessive tendency to form
associations between sensory inputs and motor outputs (abnormal potentiation) and
to a failure to weaken already existing associations (deficient depotentiation). 
Deficient homeostatic control might be an important mechanism that triggers
maladaptive reorganization and produces symptoms of occupational hand dystonias.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.02.007 
PMID: 16519953  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Apr;29(4):216-24. Epub 2006 Mar 3.

Virtues and woes of AChE alternative splicing in stress-related neuropathologies.

Meshorer E(1), Soreq H.

Author information: 
(1)National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Building 41, 41
Library Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. meshoree@mail.nih.gov

The ACh hydrolyzing enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is a combinatorial series 
of proteins with variant N and C termini generated from alternate promoter usage 
and 3' alternative splicing. Neuronal AChE variants show indistinguishable
enzymatic activity yet differ in their expression, multimeric assembly and
membrane-association patterns. Differentially induced under stress, they show
distinct non-hydrolytic properties and interact with different protein partners. 
Recent findings suggest that transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation 
of AChE pre-mRNA is a neuroprotection strategy but might involve long-term
damage. Specifically, variant-specific causal involvement of AChE in the
progression of both neurodegenerative diseases (e.g. Alzheimer's and Parkinson's 
diseases) and neuromuscular syndromes (e.g. myasthenia gravis) raises the
possibility that future therapeutic drugs might target specific AChE variant(s)
or the corresponding RNA transcripts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.02.005 
PMID: 16516310  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


841. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Apr;29(4):200-6. Epub 2006 Mar 3.

Imaging synaptic zinc: promises and perils.

Kay AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, 336 BB, University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA
52242, USA. alan-kay@uiowa.edu

It is well established that some excitatory nerve terminals have high
concentrations of Zn(2+) in their synaptic vesicles. For some time, it has been
believed that synaptic Zn(2+) is released during neurotransmission and acts as a 
neuromodulator. Fluorescent Zn(2+) indicators that do not penetrate membranes
offer the prospect of rendering the release of Zn(2+) visible. Here, I take a
critical look at fluorimetric imaging experiments devised to determine whether
Zn(2+) is released and show that they are particularly susceptible to artifacts. 
Moreover, I will argue that recent experiments suggest that, rather than being
released, Zn(2+) is presented to the extracellular space firmly coordinated to
presynaptic macromolecules.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.02.004 
PMID: 16515810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Apr;29(4):183-5. Epub 2006 Feb 28.

The fragile X-cerebellum connection.

Huber KM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Basic Neuroscience, Department of Physiology, University of Texas
Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX 75390, USA.
kimberly.huber@utsouthwestern.edu

Fragile X syndrome (FXS) is an inherited form of mental retardation that results 
from the loss of function of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). A
recent report demonstrated alterations in the structure and plasticity of
synapses on cerebellar Purkinje cells in Fmr1 knockout mice, which are a model of
FXS. These synaptic alterations are associated with deficits in the cerebellar
learning both in the mice and humans with FXS. This work forges an important link
between the FMR1 gene, altered synaptic plasticity in the cerebellum and mental
retardation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.02.001 
PMID: 16500716  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Apr;29(4):207-15. Epub 2006 Feb 21.

Fire and phantoms after spinal cord injury: Na+ channels and central pain.

Waxman SG(1), Hains BC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Center for Neuroscience and Regeneration Research,
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, USA.
stephen.waxman@yale.edu

Neuropathic pain and phantom phenomena occur commonly after spinal cord injury
(SCI) but their molecular basis is not yet fully understood. Recent findings
demonstrate abnormal expression of the Nav1.3 Na(+) channel within second-order
spinal cord dorsal horn neurons and third-order thalamic neurons along the pain
pathway after SCI, and suggest that this change makes these neurons
hyperexcitable so that they act as pain amplifiers and generators. Delineation of
molecular changes that contribute to hyperexcitability of pain-signaling neurons 
might lead to identification of molecular targets that will be useful in the
treatment of neuropathic pain after SCI and related nervous system injuries.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.02.003 
PMID: 16494954  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Apr;29(4):186-91. Epub 2006 Feb 21.

Selective stabilization and synaptic specificity: a new cell-biological model.

Jontes JD(1), Phillips GR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Neurobiology and Department of Neuroscience, The Ohio
State University, 115 Rightmire Hall, 1060 Carmack Road, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.

How are appropriate connections between neurons sorted from the overwhelming
surplus of potential, yet inappropriate, connections? Despite the apparently
improbable nature of the process, brains wire themselves with a high degree of
reproducibility that has been conserved across evolutionary history. Here, we
outline a viable cell-biological model for generating synaptic specificity that
features selection of nascent synapses based on adhesion and recognition. This
process uses the highly dynamic and stochastic nature of intracellular
trafficking to generate reproducible patterns of synaptic connectivity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.02.002 
PMID: 16490264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Apr;29(4):225-32. Epub 2006 Feb 17.

Involvement of the endocannabinoid system in drug addiction.

Maldonado R(1), Valverde O, Berrendero F.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratori de Neurofarmacologia, Facultat de Ciències de la Salut i de la
Vida, Universitat Pompeu Fabra, Carrer Dr. Aiguader 80, 08003 Barcelona, Spain.
rafael.maldonado@upf.edu

Recent studies have shown that the endocannabinoid system is involved in the
common neurobiological mechanism underlying drug addiction. This system
participates in the primary rewarding effects of cannabinoids, nicotine, alcohol 
and opioids, through the release of endocannabinoids in the ventral tegmental
area. Endocannabinoids are also involved in the motivation to seek drugs by a
dopamine-independent mechanism, demonstrated for psychostimulants and opioids.
The endocannabinoid system also participates in the common mechanisms underlying 
relapse to drug-seeking behaviour by mediating the motivational effects of
drug-related environmental stimuli and drug re-exposure. In agreement, clinical
trials have suggested that the CB(1) cannabinoid antagonist rimonabant can cause 
smoking cessation. Thus, CB(1) cannabinoid antagonists could represent a new
generation of compounds to treat drug addiction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.01.008 
PMID: 16483675  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Mar;29(3):148-59. Epub 2006 Feb 10.

Mapping brain maturation.

Toga AW(1), Thompson PM, Sowell ER.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuro Imaging, Department of Neurology, UCLA School of Medicine,
635 Charles E. Young Drive South, Suite 225, Los Angeles, CA 90095-7332, USA.
toga@loni.ucla.edu

Human brain maturation is a complex, lifelong process that can now be examined in
detail using neuroimaging techniques. Ongoing projects scan subjects
longitudinally with structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), enabling the
time-course and anatomical sequence of development to be reconstructed. Here, we 
review recent progress on imaging studies of development. We focus on cortical
and subcortical changes observed in healthy children, and contrast them with
abnormal developmental changes in early-onset schizophrenia, fetal alcohol
syndrome, attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and Williams syndrome. 
We relate these structural changes to the cellular processes that underlie them, 
and to cognitive and behavioral changes occurring throughout childhood and
adolescence.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.01.007 
PMCID: PMC3113697
PMID: 16472876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Mar;29(3):160-6. Epub 2006 Jan 27.

Optical probing of neuronal circuit dynamics: genetically encoded versus
classical fluorescent sensors.

Knöpfel T(1), Díez-García J, Akemann W.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neuronal Circuit Dynamics, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 2-1
Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198 Japan. tknopfel@brain.riken.jp

During the past few decades, optical methods for imaging activity in networks
composed of thousands of neurons have been developed. These techniques rely
mainly on organic-chemistry-based dyes as indicators of Ca(2+) and membrane
potential. However, recently a new generation of probes, genetically encoded
fluorescent protein sensors, has emerged for use by physiologists studying the
operation of neuronal circuits. We critically review the development of these new
probes, and analyze objectives and experimental conditions in which classical
probes are likely to prevail and where the fluorescent protein sensors will open 
paths to previously unexplored territories of functional neuroimaging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.01.004 
PMID: 16443289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Mar;29(3):132-9. Epub 2006 Jan 27.

AMPA signalling in nascent glutamatergic synapses: there and not there!

Groc L(1), Gustafsson B, Hanse E.

Author information: 
(1)Physiologie Cellulaire de la Synapse, CNRS-UMR 5091, Université Bordeaux 2,
33077 Bordeaux, France. laurent.groc@u-bordeaux2.fr

Nascent glutamatergic synapses are thought to be equipped with only NMDA
receptors and to mature in a stepwise fashion when AMPA receptors are acquired
later, through specific patterns of activity. We review recent data suggesting
that AMPA receptors are in fact present in the nascent synapse but in a labile
state. The nascent synapse can easily switch between AMPA-signalling and
AMPA-silent states in a manner not requiring activation of NMDA receptors or
metabotropic glutamate receptors. NMDA receptor activation by correlated
presynaptic and postsynaptic activity can switch the nascent synapse to a mature,
more stable state, in which AMPA receptor signalling is modified only through
conventional plasticity processes. Thus, the AMPA receptor silence of nascent
glutamatergic synapses depends on the synaptic activation history rather than on 
the nascent state itself.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.01.005 
PMID: 16443288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Mar;29(3):140-7. Epub 2006 Jan 27.

Intraneuronal trafficking of G-protein-coupled receptors in vivo.

Bernard V(1), Décossas M, Liste I, Bloch B.

Author information: 
(1)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Unité Mixte de Recherche 5541,
Laboratoire d'Histologie-Embryologie, Université Victor Ségalen-Bordeaux 2, 146
Rue Léo-Saignat, 33076 Bordeaux Cedex, France. veronique.bernard@univ-paris5.fr

In vitro studies have widely demonstrated that the abundance and availability of 
G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) at the cell surface is regulated by the
neuronal environment and is the result of complex intraneuronal trafficking.
However, this regulation is still poorly understood in vivo. Modulation of
receptor availability at the neuronal membrane is a key event in the regulation
of neuronal functions (e.g. neurotransmitter release or neuronal excitability in 
physiological, pathological or therapeutic conditions). We discuss the effects of
duration of receptor stimulation (acute versus chronic) on the intraneuronal
trafficking of GPCRs in vivo, and we show that this trafficking might differ
according to subcellular compartment (soma, dendrites or axon terminals).

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.01.006 
PMID: 16443287  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Mar;29(3):167-74. Epub 2006 Jan 27.

Dopamine in neurotoxicity and neuroprotection: what do D2 receptors have to do
with it?

Bozzi Y(1), Borrelli E.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Neuroscienze del CNR, via Moruzzi 1, 56100 Pisa, Italy.

Accurate control of dopamine levels and/or the resulting dopamine-receptor
interaction is essential for brain function. Indeed, several human neurological
and psychiatric disorders are characterized by dysfunctions of the dopaminergic
system. Dopamine has been reported to exert either protective or toxic effects on
neurons, yet it is unclear whether these effects are receptor-dependent and, if
so, which dopamine receptor could be involved. The D(2) dopamine receptor
occupies a privileged position because its signalling might be neuroprotective in
human diseases, such as Parkinson's disease, ischaemia and epilepsy. Unravelling 
the role of D(2) receptors in neuronal death and survival might be central to
understanding the mechanisms that underlie several neuropathologies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.01.002 
PMID: 16443286  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Mar;29(3):125-31. Epub 2006 Jan 27.

Meaningful silences: how dopamine listens to the ACh pause.

Cragg SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Pharmacology, Mansfield Road, Oxford, OX1 3QT, UK.
stephanie.cragg@pharm.ox.ac.uk

Mesostriatal dopaminergic neurons (DANs) and striatal cholinergic neurons
(tonically active neurons, TANs) participate in signalling the behavioural or
reward-related significance of stimuli in the environment. An antagonistic
balance between dopamine (DA) and ACh is well known to regulate postsynaptic
signal integration in the striatum. Recent findings have revealed additional
presynaptic ACh-DA interactions of previously unappreciated sophistication.
Striatal ACh acts presynaptically to polarize powerfully how opposing DAN
activities are transduced into DA release. Furthermore, characteristic
reward-related activities of TANs and DANs are temporally coincident but
differently variant with reward probability. Reward-related DA signals could
therefore be governed by the concomitant activity in TANs. This article discusses
the dynamic implications for DA signalling when these phenomena act in concert.
TAN pauses might powerfully enhance the contrast, or salience, of DA signals
offered by reward-related bursts, and even by reward omission-related pauses, in 
DANs. Through such mechanisms, TAN-DAN interactions would be functionally
cooperative.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.01.003 
PMID: 16443285  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Mar;29(3):175-82. Epub 2006 Jan 23.

Recent advances in Tourette syndrome research.

Albin RL(1), Mink JW.

Author information: 
(1)Geriatrics Research, Education, and Clinical Center, Ann Arbor VAMC,
Department of Neurology, University of Michigan, MI 48109, USA.

Tourette syndrome (TS) is a developmentally regulated neurobehavioral disorder
characterized by involuntary, stereotyped, repetitive movements. Recent
anatomical and neuroimaging studies have provided evidence for abnormal basal
ganglia and dopaminergic function in TS. Basic research on striatal inhibitory
mechanisms and dopaminergic function complements the recent neuroimaging and
anatomical data. Parallel studies of basal ganglia participation in the normal
performance and learning of stereotyped repetitive behaviors or habits has
provided additional insight. These lines of research have provided new pieces to 
the TS puzzle, and their increasing convergence is showing how those pieces can
be put together.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2006.01.001 
PMID: 16430974  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Feb;29(2):91-9. Epub 2006 Jan 10.

Nutritional homeostasis and indispensable amino acid sensing: a new solution to
an old puzzle.

Gietzen DW(1), Rogers QR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Physiology and Cell Biology, School of Veterinary
Medicine, One Shields Avenue, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA.
dwgietzen@ucdavis.edu

Indispensable amino acids are neither synthesized nor stored in animals and are
rapidly depleted when not provided by the diet. To maintain homeostasis,
organisms must sense deficiency of an indispensable amino acid and implement a
repletion strategy. In rats and birds, the anterior piriform cortex houses the
detector, but its mechanism has evaded description for >50 years. Recently, rapid
detection of amino acid depletion was shown behaviorally when naïve animals,
pre-fed a low nitrogen diet, terminated their first deficient meal within 20 min.
The general amino acid control system of yeast, which is activated by amino acid 
deprivation via deacylated tRNA, was found to be active in rodent brain, showing 
conservation of amino acid sensory mechanisms across eukaryotic species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.12.007 
PMID: 16406138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Feb;29(2):68-74. Epub 2006 Jan 6.

Microglial phenotype: is the commitment reversible?

Schwartz M(1), Butovsky O, Brück W, Hanisch UK.

Author information: 
(1)The Weizmann Institute of Science, POB 26, Rehovot, 76100, Israel.
michal.schwartz@weizmann.ac.il

Microglia, the standby cells for immune defense in the CNS, have a reputation for
exacerbating the neural damage that occurs in neurodegenerative diseases.
However, research over the past few years has established that microglia do not
constitute a single, uniform cell population, but rather comprise a family of
cells with diverse phenotypes--some that are beneficial and others that the CNS
can barely tolerate and that are therefore destructive. This finding raised
several questions. What instructs microglia to acquire a particular phenotype,
and how do these phenotypes differ? How committed are microglia to a specific
phenotype? Can destructive microglia become protective, and can protective
microglia retain their beneficial phenotype even when they encounter a
destructive environment? Here, we address these questions, and the background of 
research that elicited them.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.12.005 
PMID: 16406093  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Feb;29(2):116-24. Epub 2006 Jan 6.

Orbitofrontal cortex, decision-making and drug addiction.

Schoenbaum G(1), Roesch MR, Stalnaker TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Maryland School of
Medicine, 20 Penn Street, HSF-2 S251, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA.
schoenbg@schoenbaumlab.org

The orbitofrontal cortex, as a part of prefrontal cortex, is implicated in
executive function. However, within this broad region, the orbitofrontal cortex
is distinguished by its unique pattern of connections with crucial subcortical
associative learning nodes, such as basolateral amygdala and nucleus accumbens.
By virtue of these connections, the orbitofrontal cortex is uniquely positioned
to use associative information to project into the future, and to use the value
of perceived or expected outcomes to guide decisions. This review will discuss
recent evidence that supports this proposal and will examine evidence that loss
of this signal, as the result of drug-induced changes in these brain circuits,
might account for the maladaptive decision-making that characterizes drug
addiction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.12.006 
PMCID: PMC2430629
PMID: 16406092  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Feb;29(2):65; author reply 66-7. Epub 2005 Dec 27.

Response to Kitazawa and Wolpert: Rhythmicity, randomness and synchrony in
climbing fiber signals.

Gilbert PF.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2005 Nov;28(11):611-9.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.12.003 
PMID: 16380170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Feb;29(2):82-90. Epub 2006 Jan 10.

Glial cell biology in Drosophila and vertebrates.

Freeman MR(1), Doherty J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, MA 01605-2324, USA. marc.freeman@umassmed.edu

Glia are the most abundant cell type in the mammalian nervous system and they
have vital roles in neural development, function and health. However our
understanding of the biology of glia is in its infancy. How do glia develop and
interact with neurons? How diverse are glial populations? What are the primary
functions of glia in the mature nervous system? These questions can be addressed 
incisively in the Drosophila nervous system--this contains relatively few glia,
which are well-defined histologically and amenable to powerful molecular-genetic 
analyses. Here, we highlight several developmental, morphological and functional 
similarities between Drosophila and vertebrate glia. The striking parallels that 
emerge from this comparison argue that invertebrate model organisms such as
Drosophila have excellent potential to add to our understanding of fundamental
aspects of glial biology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.12.002 
PMID: 16377000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Feb;29(2):75-81. Epub 2006 Jan 10.

Paradox of Ca2+ signaling, cell death and stroke.

MacDonald JF(1), Xiong ZG, Jackson MF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Toronto, 1 King's College Circle,
Toronto, Ontario M5S 1A8, Canada. j.macdonald@utoronto.ca

Since the early 1960s it has been known that restoring extracellular Ca2+
following a period of low Ca2+ concentrations paradoxically causes an increase in
intracellular Ca2+ levels that can lead to cell death. The mystery of this 'Ca2+ 
paradox' is made more intriguing by observations that lowering concentrations of 
extracellular Ca2+ and/or Mg2+ paradoxically enhances the entry of Ca2+ into
hippocampal neurons. Until recently, the entry of Ca2+ through NMDA receptors was
accepted as the major pathway leading to the excitotoxic, delayed cell death
associated with the ischemic periods of stroke. Here, we discuss how several
transient receptor potential (TRP) channels are likely to contribute to both the 
Ca2+ paradox and the delayed death of neurons following an ischemic stroke.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.12.001 
PMID: 16376999  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Feb;29(2):100-7. Epub 2005 Dec 6.

MHC peptides and the sensory evaluation of genotype.

Boehm T(1), Zufall F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Immunology, Max-Planck-Institute of Immunobiology,
D-79108 Freiburg, Germany. boehm@immunbio.mpg.de

Social interactions, such as finding and identifying a mate, often rely on the
ability to sense molecular cues carrying information about genetic relationship
and individuality. We summarize recent evidence for an unexpected mechanistic
link between the immune and olfactory systems in enabling this identification
process. In addition to their established role in the immune response, peptide
ligands of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules constitute a
previously unknown family of social recognition signals detected by specific
subsets of sensory neurons in the mammalian nose. This sensing of MHC peptides
can be viewed as a form of functional genome analysis by the nose. Behavioral
studies in mice and fish show that MHC peptides are accepted as olfactory cues
that influence mate choice decisions and selective pregnancy failure. These
findings provide a molecular mechanism by which an individual can sense the
composition and compatibility of vital immune system molecules of a conspecific, 
with direct consequences for social behavior.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.11.006 
PMID: 16337283  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Feb;29(2):108-15. Epub 2005 Dec 5.

Mechanisms of rhythmogenesis: insights from hypothalamic vasopressin neurons.

Brown CH(1), Bourque CW.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroendocrinology and Department of Physiology, School of Medical 
Sciences, University of Otago, PO Box 913, Dunedin, New Zealand.
colin.brown@stonebow.otago.ac.nz

Many neurons in the CNS, including hypothalamic vasopressin-expressing cells,
display rhythmic activity patterning. These vasopressin neurons receive random
synaptic input but fire action potentials in alternating periods of activity and 
silence that each lasts tens of seconds. Recent work demonstrates that
vasopressin cell rhythmicity depends on feedback modulation of intrinsic membrane
properties and synaptic inputs by peptides released from the dendrites of these
neurons. Many other neurons across the CNS release neurotransmitters from their
dendrites; therefore, vasopressin cells provide an insight into the potential
mechanisms that support neuronal activity patterning across the CNS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.11.005 
PMID: 16330104  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jan;29(1):21-9. Epub 2005 Dec 7.

Neuroligins and neurexins: linking cell adhesion, synapse formation and cognitive
function.

Dean C(1), Dresbach T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Wisconsin Medical School, Madison, WI 
53706, USA. camin@physiology.wisc.edu

Cell adhesion represents the most direct way of coordinating synaptic
connectivity in the brain. Recent evidence highlights the importance of a
trans-synaptic interaction between postsynaptic neuroligins and presynaptic
neurexins. These transmembrane molecules bind each other extracellularly to
promote adhesion between dendrites and axons. This signals the recruitment of
presynaptic and postsynaptic molecules to form a functional synapse. Remarkably, 
neuroligins alone can induce the formation of fully functional presynaptic
terminals in contacting axons. Conversely, neurexins alone can induce
postsynaptic differentiation and clustering of receptors in dendrites. Therefore,
the neuroligin-neurexin interaction has the unique ability to act as a
bi-directional trigger of synapse formation. Here, we review several recent
studies that offer clues as to how these proteins form synapses and how they
might function in the brain to establish and modify neuronal network properties
and cognition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.11.003 
PMID: 16337696  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jan;29(1):8-20. Epub 2005 Dec 7.

How to build a central synapse: clues from cell culture.

Craig AM(1), Graf ER, Linhoff MW.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Centre and Department of Psychiatry, University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada V6T 2B5. amcraig@interchange.ubc.ca

Central neurons develop and maintain molecularly distinct synaptic
specializations for excitatory and inhibitory transmitters, often only microns
apart on their dendritic arbor. Progress towards understanding the molecular
basis of synaptogenesis has come from several recent studies using a coculture
system of non-neuronal cells expressing molecules that generate presynaptic or
postsynaptic "hemi-synapses" on contacting neurons. Together with molecular
properties of these protein families, such studies have yielded interesting clues
to how glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses are assembled. Other clues come from 
heterochronic cultures, manipulations of activity in subsets of neurons in a
network, and of course many in vivo studies. Taking into account these data, we
consider here how basic parameters of synapses--competence, placement,
composition, size and longevity--might be determined.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.11.002 
PMCID: PMC2820512
PMID: 16337695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jan;29(1):48-57. Epub 2005 Dec 1.

Organizing principles of real-time memory encoding: neural clique assemblies and 
universal neural codes.

Lin L(1), Osan R, Tsien JZ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Systems Neurobiology, Departments of Pharmacology and Biomedical
Engineering, Boston University, Boston, MA 02118, USA.

Recent identification of network-level coding units, termed neural cliques, in
the hippocampus has enabled real-time patterns of memory traces to be
mathematically described, directly visualized, and dynamically deciphered. These 
memory coding units are functionally organized in a categorical and hierarchical 
manner, suggesting that internal representations of external events in the brain 
is achieved not by recording exact details of those events, but rather by
recreating its own selective pictures based on cognitive importance. This
neural-clique-based hierarchical-extraction and parallel-binding process enables 
the brain to acquire not only large storage capacity but also abstraction and
generalization capability. In addition, activation patterns of the neural clique 
assemblies can be converted to strings of binary codes that would permit
universal categorizations of internal brain representations across individuals
and species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.11.004 
PMID: 16325278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jan;29(1):30-9. Epub 2005 Nov 23.

Circuits that build visual cortical receptive fields.

Hirsch JA(1), Martinez LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Southern California, 3641
Watt Way, Los Angeles, CA 90089-2520, USA. jhirsch@usc.edu

Neural sensitivity to basic elements of the visual scene changes dramatically as 
information is handed from the thalamus to the primary visual cortex in cats.
Famously, thalamic neurons are insensitive to stimulus orientation whereas their 
cortical targets easily resolve small changes in stimulus angle. There are two
main types of cells in the visual cortex, simple and complex, defined by the
structure of their receptive fields. Simple cells are thought to lay the
groundwork for orientation selectivity. This review focuses on approaches that
combine anatomy with physiology at the intracellular level, to explore the
circuits that build simple receptive fields and that help to maintain neural
sensitivity to stimulus features even when luminance contrast changes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.11.001 
PMID: 16309753  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jan;29(1):40-7. Epub 2005 Nov 14.

Mechanisms of odor discrimination: neurophysiological and behavioral approaches.

Friedrich RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute for Medical Research, Department of Biomedical Optics,
Jahnstrasse 29, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany. rainer.friedrich@mpimf-heidelberg.de

Understanding how complex neuronal circuits in the brain perform advanced
computations is a central question in neuroscience that can only be addressed
using a combination of approaches, including neurophysiology and behavioral
analyses. In the olfactory bulb, neurophysiological studies have revealed that
neuronal interactions reorganize odor-evoked activity patterns so that their
discriminability is enhanced. Recent behavioral studies have examined the role of
this computation in odor discrimination tasks and generated working models of
behavioral odor discrimination strategies. The results appear consistent with a
role of pattern reorganization in odor discrimination behavior but further
studies are necessary to resolve this issue. These studies advance the
understanding of neuronal circuit function in the olfactory bulb and illustrate
benefits and caveats of comparing behavioral and neurophysiological results.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.10.004 
PMID: 16290274  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jan;29(1):58-64. Epub 2005 Nov 14.

Consolidation of motor memory.

Krakauer JW(1), Shadmehr R.

Author information: 
(1)The Neurological Institute, Columbia University College of Physicians and
Surgeons, 710 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032, USA. kwf18@columbia.edu

An issue of great recent interest is whether motor memory consolidates in a
manner analogous to declarative memory--that is, with the formation of a memory
that progresses over time from a fragile state, which is susceptible to
interference by a lesion or a conflicting motor task, to a stabilized state,
which is resistant to such interference. Here, we first review studies that
examine the anatomical basis for motor consolidation. Evidence implicates
cerebellar circuitry in two types of associative motor learning--eyelid
conditioning and vestibulo-ocular reflex adaptation--and implicates primary motor
cortex in skilled finger movements. We also review evidence for and against a
consolidation process for adaptation of arm movements. We propose that
contradictions have arisen because consolidation can be masked by inhibition of
memory retrieval.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.10.003 
PMCID: PMC2553888
PMID: 16290273  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Trends Neurosci. 2006 Jan;29(1):1-7. Epub 2005 Nov 3.

Is the vomeronasal system really specialized for detecting pheromones?

Baxi KN(1), Dorries KM, Eisthen HL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, 203 Natural Sciences Building, Michigan State
University, East Lansing, MI 48824, USA.

Many academics, clinicians and lay readers of science incorrectly assume that
vomeronasal processing is equivalent to pheromone processing. We review the
abundant data concerning the roles of both the olfactory and the vomeronasal
systems in the processing of both pheromones and other odorants, demonstrating
that this "equivalency hypothesis" is untenable. This conclusion has important
implications for the design and interpretation of experiments examining
vomeronasal and olfactory system function. We describe some of the problems that 
arise from assuming that this equivalency holds. Two alternative hypotheses have 
been offered, but the available data do not enable us to accept or reject either 
one. Perhaps no single functional description can adequately characterize the
role of the vomeronasal system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.10.002 
PMID: 16271402  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Dec;28(12):653-60. Epub 2005 Nov 3.

A role for circuit homeostasis in adult neurogenesis.

Meltzer LA(1), Yabaluri R, Deisseroth K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Neuroscience Program, Stanford University, W083 
Clark Center, 318 Campus Drive West, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.

Insertion of new neurons into adult neural circuits could either promote or
impair circuit function, depending on whether homeostatic mechanisms are in place
to regulate the resulting changes in neural activity. In the hippocampus (a
mammalian forebrain structure important in aspects of memory and mood) several
lines of behavioral evidence suggest important adaptive roles for adult-generated
neurons, indicating that there could be mechanisms to control the potentially
adverse increase in excitation associated with new cells. Here, we delineate
behavioral and computational models for the role of circuit homeostasis in
enabling neuron insertion to modulate hippocampal function adaptively, and we
describe molecular and cellular mechanisms for implementing this circuit-level
adaptive regulation of hippocampal activity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.09.007 
PMID: 16271403  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Dec;28(12):661-9. Epub 2005 Oct 24.

Glia: novel counter-regulators of opioid analgesia.

Watkins LR(1), Hutchinson MR, Johnston IN, Maier SF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and the Center for Neuroscience, University of
Colorado at Boulder, Boulder, CO 80309-0345, USA. linda.watkins@colorado.edu

Development of analgesic tolerance and withdrawal-induced pain enhancement
present serious difficulties for the use of opioids for pain control. Although
neuronal mechanisms to account for these phenomena have been sought for many
decades, their bases remain unresolved. Within the past four years, a novel
non-neuronal candidate has been uncovered that opposes acute opioid analgesia and
contributes to development of opioid tolerance and tolerance-associated pain
enhancement. This novel candidate is spinal cord glia. Glia are important
contributors to the creation of enhanced pain states via the release of
neuroexcitatory substances. New data suggest that glia also release
neuroexcitatory substances in response to morphine, thereby opposing its effects.
Controlling glial activation could therefore increase the clinical utility of
analgesic drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.10.001 
PMID: 16246435  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Dec;28(12):636-43. Epub 2005 Oct 10.

Sounds do-able: auditory-motor transformations and the posterior temporal plane.

Warren JE(1), Wise RJ, Warren JD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience and Mental Health, Imperial College London, London
W12 0NN, UK. warren@dementia.ion.ucl.ac.uk

Accumulating evidence in humans and non-human primates implicates the posterior
superior temporal plane (STP) in the processing of both auditory spatial
information and vocal sounds. Such evidence is difficult to reconcile with
existing accounts of the primate auditory brain. We propose that the
posteromedial STP generates sequenced auditory representations by matching
incoming auditory information with stored templates. These sequenced auditory
representations are subsequently used to constrain motor responses. We argue for 
a re-assessment of the much-debated dorsal auditory pathway in terms of its
generic behavioral role as an auditory "do" pathway.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.09.010 
PMID: 16216346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Dec;28(12):670-6. Epub 2005 Oct 10.

Molecular basis of programmed cell death involved in neurodegeneration.

Krantic S(1), Mechawar N, Reix S, Quirion R.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Neurobiologie de la Méditerranée (INMED), Institut National de la 
Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM), Parc Scientifique Luminy, BP13, 13
273 Marseille, France. krantic@inmed.univ.mrs.fr

Rapid progress in understanding the molecular basis of neurodegeneration has been
tightly linked with recent discoveries in the field of programmed cell death
(PCD). Analysis of PCD in neuronal demise has led to identification of several
associated phenomena, such as re-initiation of the cell cycle and the key role of
oxidative stress, although putative causal relationships between these events are
still debatable. These issues are reviewed here in the context of acute and
chronic neurodegenerative processes. In addition, newly emerging concepts
concerning cell-cycle re-initiation are discussed in terms of their potential
impact on the development of more effective therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.09.011 
PMID: 16216345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Dec;28(12):629-35. Epub 2005 Oct 7.

A neuroendocrine mechanism for sustaining fear.

Schulkin J(1), Morgan MA, Rosen JB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Georgetown University, Washington, DC
20007, USA. jschulkin@acog.org

Fear is an adaptive response to recognition of a potentially dangerous event.
Glucocorticoids are essential for maintaining a wide variety of behavioral events
by their regulation of numerous genes; one such gene encodes
corticotrophin-releasing hormone (CRH). CRH is involved in diverse behavioral
responses to changing environmental demands. In this review, we focus on one
aspect of glucocorticoid regulation of CRH--namely, fear-related responses to
diverse classes of adverse events, such as those represented by contextual and
cue-specific stimuli. Three extra-hypothalamic forebrain sites appear crucial for
fear-related behavioral responses: the amygdala and the bed nucleus of the stria 
terminalis for sustaining adaptive fear-related behaviors, and the medial
prefrontal cortex for modulating fear-related behaviors. Central regulation of
CRH by glucocorticoids is important for adaptive and sustained fear-related
behaviors, and its aberration is associated with anxiety and depressive
disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.09.009 
PMID: 16214230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Dec;28(12):677-83. Epub 2005 Oct 5.

Stem cells for the treatment of myelin loss.

Keirstead HS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Reeve-Irvine Research Center, Department of Anatomy & Neurobiology, School of 
Medicine, 2111 Gillespie Neuroscience Research Facility, University of California
at Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697-4292, USA. hansk@uci.edu

Treatment of myelin loss is particularly suited to therapeutic strategies based
on cell replacement. Demyelination represents a defined and functionally
debilitating deficit, and remyelination can be accomplished by supplying regions 
of demyelination with myelinogenic cell populations. Clinical interest in stem
cells as a source of myelinogenic cells arises from their ability to provide an
apparently unlimited cell supply for transplantation, and from recent
demonstrations that they can be directed to myelinogenic phenotypes with high
purity. Here, I present the emerging perspective that stem-cell-mediated
remyelination of the adult CNS is a viable therapeutic strategy, and discuss the 
challenges to remyelination posed by the environment of acute and chronic
injuries.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.09.008 
PMID: 16213602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Dec;28(12):644-52. Epub 2005 Oct 3.

The neurogenetics and evolution of food-related behaviour.

Douglas SJ(1), Dawson-Scully K, Sokolowski MB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Toronto, 3359 Mississauga Road, Ontario, 
Canada L5L 1C6.

All organisms must acquire nutrients from the ambient environment to survive. In 
animals, the need to eat has driven the evolution of a rich array of complex
food-related behaviours that ensure appropriate nutrient intake in diverse
niches. Here, we review some of the neural and genetic components that contribute
to the regulation of food-related behaviour in invertebrates, with emphasis on
mechanisms that are conserved throughout various taxa and activities. We focus on
synthesizing neurobiological and genetic approaches into a neurogenetic framework
that explains food-related behaviour as the product of interactions between
neural substrates, genes and internal and external environments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.09.006 
PMID: 16203044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Nov;28(11):620-7. Epub 2005 Sep 21.

The anatomical logic of smell.

Schoenfeld TA(1), Cleland TA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Program in Neuroscience, University of Massachusetts
Medical School, Worcester, MA 01655, USA. thomas.schoenfeld@umassmed.edu

Olfactory receptor neurons (ORNs) expressing the same odorant receptor gene share
ligand-receptor affinity profiles and converge onto common glomerular targets in 
the brain. The activation patterns of different ORN populations, evoked by
differential binding of odorant molecular moieties, constitute the primary odor
representation. However, odorants possess properties other than receptor-binding 
sites that can contribute to odorant discrimination. Among terrestrial
vertebrates, odorant sorptiveness--volatility and water solubility--imposes
physicochemical constraints on migration through the nose during inspiration. The
non-uniform distributions of ORN populations along the inspiratory axis enable
sorptiveness to modify odor representations by affecting the number of molecules 
reaching different receptors during a sniff. Animals can then modify and analyze 
odor representation further by the dynamic regulation of sniffing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.09.005 
PMID: 16182387  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Nov;28(11):611-9. Epub 2005 Sep 22.

Rhythmicity, randomness and synchrony in climbing fiber signals.

Kitazawa S(1), Wolpert DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology (I), Juntendo University School of Medicine, 2-1-1
Hongo, Tokyo 113-8421, Japan. kitazawa@med.juntendo.ac.jp

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2006 Feb;29(2):65; author reply 66-7.

The role of the climbing fiber input to the cerebellum has been enigmatic, with
recent studies focusing on its temporal and spatial firing patterns. Debate
remains as to whether climbing fibers provide a periodic clock for coordinating
movements or lead to long-term modification of Purkinje cell activity as the
basis of motor learning. Rhythmic and synchronous activity of climbing fibers can
cause movements at the same frequency in some preparations, suggesting a role in 
motor timing. However, in awake monkeys climbing fiber signals have been reported
to occur at random, presenting a problem for clock theories. Yet synchronous
patterns of discharge are consistently observed among several Purkinje cells
within a narrow parasagittal longitudinal band. Here, we review recent
experimental and theoretical studies and attempt to provide a coherent account of
the interplay between rhythmicity, randomness and synchrony in climbing fiber
activity, with a particular reference to studies in chaos.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.09.004 
PMID: 16182386  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Nov;28(11):596-601. Epub 2005 Sep 15.

Moving past proliferation: new roles for Cdh1-APC in postmitotic neurons.

Stegmüller J(1), Bonni A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Nearly ten years after its discovery as a crucial cell-cycle-regulated ubiquitin 
ligase, the anaphase-promoting complex (APC) is making a debut in neurobiology.
During the past year, some of the mystery surrounding a potential function for
APC in the brain has been unveiled. Recent studies have defined novel roles for
APC in the regulation of axonal growth and patterning, as well as in synaptic
development and function. With this strong beginning for APC in neurobiology, the
months and years to come are likely to bring many more insights into how neuronal
APC contributes to biological processes in brain development and disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.09.003 
PMID: 16168498  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Nov;28(11):571-3. Epub 2005 Sep 13.

Like cops on the beat: the active role of resting microglia.

Raivich G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Perinatal Brain Repair Group, Department of Anatomy, Obstetrics and
Gynaecology, University College London, Chenies Mews 86-96, London WC1E 6HX, UK. 
g.raivich@ucl.ac.uk

Microglia form the first line of defence for the neural parenchyma. But do these 
cells pursue an active role in the normal brain, or do they become activated only
after injury? Two papers published recently by Nimmerjahn et al. and Davalos et
al. used in vivo two-photon laser-scanning microscopy reveal that the fine
branches of 'resting' microglia are highly mobile, and provide extensive and
continuous surveillance of their cellular environment. These moving branches show
a rapid chemotactic response to tissue injury that depends on purine receptors
and connexin hemichannels, and they appear to take cues from surrounding
astrocytes both in the normal and the injured brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.09.001 
PMID: 16165228  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Nov;28(11):574-82. Epub 2005 Sep 13.

Network reset: a simplified overarching theory of locus coeruleus noradrenaline
function.

Bouret S(1), Sara SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neuromodulation, Plasticité Neuronale et Cognition, CNRS UMR 7102, Université 
Pierre & Marie Curie, 9 Quai Saint Bernard, 75005 Paris, France.

Unraveling the functional role of neuromodulatory systems has been a major
challenge for cognitive neuroscience, giving rise to theories ranging from a
simple role in vigilance to complex models concerning decision making, prediction
errors or unexpected uncertainty. A new, simplified and overarching theory of
noradrenaline function is inspired by an invertebrate model: neuromodulators in
crustacea abruptly interrupt activity in neural networks and reorganize the
elements into new functional networks determining the behavioral output.
Analogously in mammals, phasic activation of noradrenergic neurons of the locus
coeruleus in time with cognitive shifts could provoke or facilitate dynamic
reorganization of target neural networks, permitting rapid behavioral adaptation 
to changing environmental imperatives. Detailed analysis and discussion of
extensive electrophysiological data from the locus coeruleus of rats and monkeys 
in controlled behavioral situations is provided here to support this view. This
simplified 'new look' at locus coeruleus noradrenaline function redirects the
challenge of understanding neuromodulatory systems towards their target networks,
particularly to the dynamics of their interactions and how they organize adaptive
behavior.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.09.002 
PMID: 16165227  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Nov;28(11):589-95. Epub 2005 Sep 8.

Molecular regulation of adult CNS neurogenesis: an integrated view.

Hagg T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Research Center, Department of Neurological
Surgery, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40292, USA.
theo.hagg@louisville.edu

Neural stem cells in the adult subventricular zone and dentate gyrus might be
utilized to replace lost neurons in neurological disorders. The development of
treatments would be facilitated by identifying the mechanisms that contribute to 
functional neurogenesis in adult animals. This review focuses on the emerging
view that localized and overlapping pathways of growth factors, metalloproteases,
neurotransmitters and hormones regulate different aspects of neurogenesis within 
the neurogenic niches. Neuroblast migration is precisely regulated by cooperation
between several repellants, attractants and guidance molecules that are located
within specific CNS regions. Further elucidation of crucial molecular regulators 
and integration of their signaling cascades should lead to more rational and
effective approaches to harness the exciting phenomenon of adult CNS
neurogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.08.009 
PMID: 16153715  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Nov;28(11):583-8. Epub 2005 Aug 31.

From stem cells to neurons and glia: a Soxist's view of neural development.

Wegner M(1), Stolt CC.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Biochemie, Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, D-91054 Erlangen,
Germany. m.wegner@biochem.uni-erlangen.de

During nervous system development, neural stem cells give rise to many different 
types of neurons and glia over an extended period. Little is known about the
intrinsic factors that regulate stem-cell maintenance, decide whether neurons or 
glia are generated, or control terminal differentiation. Transcription factors of
the Sox family provide important clues about the control of these events. In the 
central nervous system (CNS), Sox1, Sox2 and Sox3 are required for stem-cell
maintenance, and their effects are counteracted by Sox21. Sox9, by contrast,
alters the potential of stem cells from neurogenic to gliogenic, whereas Sox10 is
essential for terminal oligodendrocyte differentiation. In the peripheral nervous
system (PNS) the same Sox proteins have different functions, uncovering important
developmental differences between the CNS and PNS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.08.008 
PMID: 16139372  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Nov;28(11):602-10. Epub 2005 Aug 31.

Modulation of neocortical interneurons: extrinsic influences and exercises in
self-control.

Bacci A(1), Huguenard JR, Prince DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.

Neocortical GABAergic interneurons are a highly heterogeneous cell population
that forms complex functional networks and has key roles in information
processing within the cerebral cortex. Mechanisms that control the output of
these cells are therefore crucial in regulating excitability within the neocortex
during normal and pathophysiological activities. In addition to subtype-specific 
modulation of GABAergic cells by neurotransmitters released by afferents from
subcortical nuclei, interneurons belonging to different classes are controlled by
distinct self-modulatory mechanisms, each unique and powerful. In this article,
we review the diverse responses of neocortical interneurons to extrinsic and
intrinsic neuromodulators. We discuss how specificity of responses might
differentially influence inhibition in somatodendritic compartments of pyramidal 
neurons and affect the balance of activities in neocortical circuits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.08.007 
PMID: 16139371  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Oct;28(10):512-7.

Is postnatal neocortical maturation hierarchical?

Guillery RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, University of Wisconsin, 1300 University Avenue,
Madison, WI 53706, USA. rguiller@wisc.edu

To understand the postnatal development of the cerebral cortex we must know how
changes in one cortical area depend on inputs from other cortical areas. Do
cortical areas serving early stages of processing (primary sensory receiving
areas) mature first, passing relatively stable outputs about sensorimotor
relationships to cortical areas involved in higher stages of processing that are 
still developing? And, if some areas mature later than others, do they have
functions that can account for aspects of adolescent behavior? Some observations 
support concurrent maturation in all cortical areas, others support a
hierarchical sequence. Here, evidence on this important issue is evaluated, and
means of obtaining reliable information are presented.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.08.006 
PMID: 16126285  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Oct;28(10):541-51.

Synaptic pathways in neural microcircuits.

Silberberg G(1), Grillner S, LeBeau FE, Maex R, Markram H.

Author information: 
(1)Nobel Institute for Neurophysiology, Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska
Institutet, S-17177 Stockholm, Sweden.

The functions performed by different neural microcircuits depend on the
anatomical and physiological properties of the various synaptic pathways
connecting neurons. Neural microcircuits across various species and brain regions
are similar in terms of their repertoire of neurotransmitters, their synaptic
kinetics, their short-term and long-term plasticity, and the target-specificity
of their synaptic connections. However, microcircuits can be fundamentally
different in terms of the precise recurrent design used to achieve a specific
functionality. In this review, which is part of the TINS Microcircuits Special
Feature, we compare the connectivity designs in spinal, hippocampal, neocortical 
and cerebellar microcircuits, and discuss the different computational challenges 
that each microcircuit faces.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.08.004 
PMID: 16122815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Oct;28(10):562-9.

Biophysically detailed modelling of microcircuits and beyond.

De Schutter E(1), Ekeberg O, Kotaleski JH, Achard P, Lansner A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Theoretical Neurobiology, Institute Born-Bunge, University of
Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610 Antwerp, Belgium. erik@tnb.ua.ac.be

Realistic bottom-up modelling has been seminal to understanding which properties 
of microcircuits control their dynamic behaviour, such as the locomotor rhythms
generated by central pattern generators. In this article of the TINS
Microcircuits Special Feature, we review recent modelling work on the
leech-heartbeat and lamprey-swimming pattern generators as examples. Top-down
mathematical modelling also has an important role in analyzing microcircuit
properties but it has not always been easy to reconcile results from the two
modelling approaches. Most realistic microcircuit models are relatively simple
and need to be made more detailed to represent complex processes more accurately.
We review methods to add neuromechanical feedback, biochemical pathways or full
dendritic morphologies to microcircuit models. Finally, we consider the
advantages and challenges of full-scale simulation of networks of microcircuits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.08.002 
PMID: 16118023  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Oct;28(10):525-33.

Microcircuits in action--from CPGs to neocortex.

Grillner S(1), Markram H, De Schutter E, Silberberg G, LeBeau FE.

Author information: 
(1)Nobel Institute for Neurophysiology, Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska
Institutet, S-17177 Stockholm, Sweden. sten.grillner@neuro.ki.se

To understand the interface between global brain function and molecular
neuroscience--that is, the microcircuit level--a major challenge. Such
understanding is prerequisite if we are to account for neural function in
cellular terms. Very few vertebrate microcircuits are yet understood because
their analysis is demanding technically. In this review of the TINS Microcircuits
Special Feature, we attempt to shed light on the problem by comparing the
operation of four types of microcircuit, to identify common molecular and
cellular components. Central pattern generator (CPG) networks underlying rhythmic
movements and hippocampal microcircuits that generate gamma and theta rhythms are
compared with the neocortical microcircuits used in cognitive tasks and a
cerebellar network. The long-term goal is to identify the components of a
molecular and synaptic tool kit for the design of different microcircuits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.08.003 
PMID: 16118022  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Oct;28(10):534-40.

Cellular signalling properties in microcircuits.

Toledo-Rodriguez M(1), El Manira A, Wallén P, Svirskis G, Hounsgaard J.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neural Microcircuitry, Brain Mind Institute, EPFL, Lausanne
CH-1015, Switzerland.

Molecules and cells are the signalling elements in microcircuits. Recent studies 
have uncovered bewildering diversity in postsynaptic signalling properties in all
areas of the vertebrate nervous system. Major effort is now being invested in
establishing the specialized signalling properties at the cellular and molecular 
levels in microcircuits in specific brain regions. This review is part of the
TINS Microcircuits Special Feature.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.08.001 
PMID: 16112756  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Oct;28(10):552-61.

Tuning the network: modulation of neuronal microcircuits in the spinal cord and
hippocampus.

LeBeau FE(1), El Manira A, Griller S.

Author information: 
(1)School of Neurology, Neurobiology and Psychiatry, University of
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Newcastle-upon-Tyne NE2 4HH, UK.
fiona.lebeau@newcastle.ac.uk

Adaptation of an organism to its changing environment ultimately depends on the
modification of neuronal activity. The dynamic interaction between cellular
components within neuronal networks relies on fast synaptic interaction via
ionotropic receptors. However, neuronal networks are also subject to modulation
mediated by various metabotropic G-protein-coupled receptors that modify synaptic
and neuronal function. Modulation increases the functional complexity of a
network, because the same cellular components can produce different outputs
depending on the behavioural state of the animal. This review, which is part of
the TINS Microcircuits Special Feature, provides an overview of neuromodulation
in two neuronal circuits that both produce oscillatory activity but differ
fundamentally in function. Hippocampal circuits are compared with the spinal
networks generating locomotion, with a view to exploring common principles of
neuromodulatory activity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.08.005 
PMID: 16112755  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Oct;28(10):507-8.

PENS, the new joint Programme for European Neuroscience Schools: FENS and IBRO
turn past into future.

Aguayo AJ, Freund T, Huck S.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.07.009 
PMID: 16087249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Oct;28(10):509-11.

Who's on first? What's on second? The time course of learning in corticostriatal 
systems.

Laubach M(1).

Author information: 
(1)The John B. Pierce Laboratory and Department of Neurobiology, Yale University 
School of Medicine, 290 Congress Avenue, New Haven, CT 06519, USA.
mark.laubach@yale.edu

The prefrontal cortex and basal ganglia are known to be crucial for learning
arbitrary sensorimotor associations (e.g. knowing to stop at red traffic lights).
However, little is known about the timing of learning-related activity in these
brain systems. Conventional wisdom suggests that the prefrontal cortex should
drive learning-related changes in the basal ganglia. However, it is possible that
the basal ganglia are instead responsible for the development of learning-related
activity in prefrontal cortex. Indeed, recent work using methods for recording in
the prefrontal cortex and basal ganglia simultaneously suggests that
learning-related activity emerges first in the basal ganglia. Here, these studies
are reviewed and integrated with the known anatomy of corticostriatal
connections. Testable hypotheses regarding corticostriatal interactions during
learning are proposed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.07.008 
PMID: 16083975  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Oct;28(10):518-24.

Reanimating limbs after injury or disease.

Stein RB(1), Mushahwar V.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2S2,
Canada. richard.stein@ualberta.ca

Many diseases and injuries lead to loss of motor function. Can we reanimate
paralyzed limbs to produce effective, graceful movements? Recent insights into
the function of the motor system and greatly improved computing capabilities have
made this a realistic goal, even in the absence of regeneration of motor
pathways. Some approaches involve stimulating muscles, nerves or the spinal cord 
below the level of a lesion. Others involve recording a subject's intention from 
the cortex, and using this intention to control computers, robots or systems for 
stimulating the limbs. Here, we critically analyze the possibilities and
limitations of various approaches for restoring motor function based on recent
human trials and underlying neuroscience research.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.07.007 
PMID: 16083974  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Sep;28(9):456-63.

Maternal care as a model for experience-dependent chromatin plasticity?

Meaney MJ(1), Szyf M.

Author information: 
(1)Douglas Hospital Research Center, 6875 LaSalle Boulevard, Montréal, Québec H4H
1R3, Canada. michael.meaney@mcgill.ca

It is widely acknowledged that the nature of the maternal care a child receives
can have long-term repercussions, and that children raised in deprived
environments can have severe cognitive and behavioural difficulties that last
into adulthood. The mechanisms underlying these effects are not understood, but
recent data from rodents provide insight into a potential molecular mechanism.
Like humans, rodent maternal behaviour towards offspring can effect long-term
changes in responses of the offspring to stress throughout the rest of their
lives. Remarkably, these changes reflect permanently altered gene expression,
so-called "environmental programming", and its downstream effects on the
hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. This review discusses the nature of this
environmental programming--the mechanism by which it occurs in rats, its
long-term implications, and opportunities for its reversal in rodents and
ultimately in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.07.006 
PMID: 16054244  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Sep;28(9):501-6.

Animal models of multiple system atrophy.

Stefanova N(1), Tison F, Reindl M, Poewe W, Wenning GK.

Author information: 
(1)Clinical Department of Neurology, Innsbruck Medical University, 6020
Innsbruck, Austria.

Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder presenting
with autonomic failure and motor impairment, primarily comprising
L-dopa-resistant parkinsonism but occasionally involving cerebellar ataxia. These
features result from progressive multisystem neuronal loss that is associated
with oligodendroglial alpha-synuclein inclusions. The growing number of animal
models for MSA reflects the search for a preclinical test-bed for elucidating MSA
pathogenesis and for developing novel therapeutic interventions. Here, the
currently available MSA animal models will be reviewed and leads for future
research will be identified.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.07.002 
PMID: 16043239  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Sep;28(9):472-9.

Shedding light on membrane proteins.

Gandhi CS(1), Isacoff EY.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Division of Chemistry and Chemical
Engineering, Caltech, Pasadena, CA 91101, USA.

Membrane proteins are a cell's first line of communication with the world that
exists just beyond the plasma membrane. These proteins afford the cell a peek at 
its external environment, signal the cell to adjust its internal chemistry in
response to its surroundings, and ensure that the cell's metabolic state is
faithfully coupled to the outside world. Because of their importance in cellular 
communication, membrane proteins have been the focus of intense study at the
functional and structural levels. Here, we describe optical techniques that can
either passively monitor or actively control the structural rearrangements that
take place as these proteins peek at the outside world. Our focus is on ion
channels, but the techniques described can be applied to a host of other
proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.07.005 
PMID: 16043238  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Sep;28(9):480-6.

Human diseases reveal novel roles for neural laminins.

Colognato H(1), ffrench-Constant C, Feltri ML.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, SUNY-Stony Brook, Stony Brook, NY 11794, USA.

Extracellular matrix molecules such as laminins have a central role in regulating
cell behaviour. However, our understanding of their functions in the mammalian
nervous system is incomplete. It is important to establish these functions, both 
for an understanding of normal development and to devise strategies to enhance
repair. Here, we review how insights gained from human diseases caused by genetic
mutations in laminins or their receptors have revealed significant and sometimes 
unexpected roles for laminins in neural stem cells, migrating neurons and
myelinating glia, in both the PNS and CNS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.07.004 
PMID: 16043237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Sep;28(9):464-71.

Activity-dependent modulation of the BDNF receptor TrkB: mechanisms and
implications.

Nagappan G(1), Lu B.

Author information: 
(1)Section on Neural Development and Plasticity, National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development, National Institutes of Health, 35 Lincoln Drive,
MSC 3714, Bethesda, MD 20892-4480, USA.

Although brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) has emerged as a key regulator 
of activity-dependent synaptic plasticity, a conceptually challenging question is
how this diffusible molecule achieves local and synapse-specific modulation. One 
hypothesis is that neuronal activity enhances BDNF signaling by selectively
modulating TrkB receptors at active neurons or synapses without affecting
receptors on neighboring, less-active ones. Growing evidence suggests that
neuronal activity facilitates cell-surface expression of TrkB. BDNF secreted from
active synapses and neurons recruits TrkB from extrasynaptic sites into lipid
rafts, microdomains of membrane that are enriched at synapses. Postsynaptic rises
in cAMP concentrations facilitate translocation of TrkB into the postsynaptic
density. Finally, neuronal activity promotes BDNF-induced TrkB endocytosis, a
signaling event important for many long-term BDNF functions. These mechanisms
could collectively underlie synapse-specific regulation by BDNF.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.07.003 
PMID: 16040136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Sep;28(9):494-500.

Ca2+, mitochondria and selective motoneuron vulnerability: implications for ALS.

von Lewinski F(1), Keller BU.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum Physiologie, Georg-August Universität Göttingen, Humboldtallee 23,
37073 Göttingen, Germany.

Motoneurons are selectively damaged in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), a
fatal neurodegenerative disorder. Although the underlying mechanisms are not
completely understood, increasing evidence indicates that motoneurons are
particularly sensitive to disruption of mitochondria and Ca(2+)-dependent
signalling cascades. Comparison of ALS-vulnerable and ALS-resistant neurons
identified low Ca(2+)-buffering capacity and a strong impact of mitochondrial
signal cascades as important risk factors. Under physiological conditions, weak
Ca(2+) buffers are valuable because they facilitate rapid relaxation times of
Ca(2+) transients in motoneurons during high-frequency rhythmic activity.
However, under pathological conditions, weak Ca(2+) buffers are potentially
dangerous because they accelerate a vicious circle of mitochondrial disruption,
Ca(2+) disregulation and excitotoxic cell damage.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.07.001 
PMID: 16026864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Sep;28(9):487-93.

IL-18: a key player in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration?

Felderhoff-Mueser U(1), Schmidt OI, Oberholzer A, Bührer C, Stahel PF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neonatology, Campus Virchow Klinikum, Charité University Medical
School, 13353 Berlin, Germany.

Interleukin (IL)-18 is a potent inflammatory cytokine of the IL-1 family. It is
synthesized as an inactive precursor (pro-IL-18), which is cleaved into its
functionally active form by caspase-1. Resident cells of the CNS express IL-18
and caspase-1 constitutively, thus providing a local IL-18-dependent immune
response. Recent studies have highlighted a crucial role for IL-18 in mediating
neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration in the CNS under pathological conditions,
such as bacterial and viral infection, autoimmune demyelinating disease, and
hypoxic-ischemic, hyperoxic and traumatic brain injuries. This review provides a 
synopsis of the current knowledge of IL-18-dependent mechanisms of action during 
acute neurodegeneration in immature and adult brains.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.06.008 
PMID: 16023742  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Sep;28(9):453-5.

SNARE complexes prepare for membrane fusion.

Sørensen JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, Am Fassberg 11, 37077
Göttingen, Germany. jsoeren@gwdg.de

According to a popular theory, the three presynaptic SNARE proteins (syntaxin 1, 
synaptobrevin 2 and SNAP-25) drive neuroexocytosis by forming a complex that
forces vesicle and plasma membranes together. However, individual reactions in
this process have been difficult to resolve. Now, two groups have succeeded in
studying a very early and a very late step in the fusion process.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.06.007 
PMID: 15996765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Aug;28(8):436-45.

The many faces of CREB.

Carlezon WA Jr(1), Duman RS, Nestler EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School and McLean Hospital, Belmont 
MA 02478, USA. carlezon@mclean.harvard.edu

The transcription factor CREB is best known for its involvement in learning and
memory. However, emerging evidence suggests that CREB activity has very different
roles--sometimes beneficial, sometimes detrimental--depending on the brain region
involved. Induction of CREB in the hippocampus by antidepressant treatments could
contribute to their therapeutic efficacy. By contrast, activation of CREB in the 
nucleus accumbens and several other regions by drugs of abuse or stress mediates 
certain aspects of drug addiction, and depressive and anxiety-like behaviors.
These complexities suggest that strategies that exploit regional differences in
upstream factors or that target specific CREB-regulated genes, rather than CREB
itself, could make a promising contribution to the treatment of neuropsychiatric 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.06.005 
PMID: 15982754  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


901. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Aug;28(8):401-7.

Subcortical loops through the basal ganglia.

McHaffie JG(1), Stanford TR, Stein BE, Coizet V, Redgrave P.

Author information: 
(1)Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Department of Neurobiology and
Anatomy, Medical Center Boulevard, Winston-Salem NC 27157-1010, USA.

Parallel, largely segregated, closed-loop projections are an important component 
of cortical-basal ganglia-cortical connectional architecture. Here, we present
the hypothesis that such loops involving the neocortex are neither novel nor the 
first evolutionary example of closed-loop architecture involving the basal
ganglia. Specifically, we propose that a phylogenetically older, closed-loop
series of subcortical connections exists between the basal ganglia and brainstem 
sensorimotor structures, a good example of which is the midbrain superior
colliculus. Insofar as this organization represents a general feature of brain
architecture, cortical and subcortical inputs to the basal ganglia might act
independently, co-operatively or competitively to influence the mechanisms of
action selection.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.06.006 
PMID: 15982753  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Aug;28(8):395-6.

The many roles of starburst amacrine cells.

Masland RH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA. masland@helix.mgh.harvard.edu

Starburst amacrine cells release two classical neurotransmitters, ACh and GABA.
In a tour de force of paired-cell recording, Zheng et al. now show that the
starburst cells are mutually excitatory during early development but mutually
inhibitory in adult animals. The change occurs by remodeling of both the
cholinergic and the GABAergic synapses between starburst cells. The finding gives
a precise mechanistic basis for the developmental waves of activity in the
retina.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.06.002 
PMID: 15979167  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Aug;28(8):422-8.

For K+ channels, Na+ is the new Ca2+.

Bhattacharjee A(1), Kaczmarek LK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Medicine and Biomedical
Science, The State University of New York, Buffalo, NY 14214, USA.

Although K+ channels activated by Ca2+ have long been known to shape neuronal
excitability, evidence is accumulating that K+ channels sensitive to
intracellular Na+, termed K(Na) channels, have an equally significant role. K(Na)
channels contribute to adaptation of firing rate and to slow
afterhyperpolarizations that follow repetitive firing. In certain neurons, they
also appear to be activated by Na+ influx accompanying a single spike. Two genes 
encoding these channels, Slick and Slack, are expressed throughout the brain. The
spatial localization of K(Na) channels along axons, dendrites and somata appears 
to be highly cell-type specific. Their molecular properties also suggest that
these channels contribute to the response of neurons to hypoxia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.06.003 
PMID: 15979166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Aug;28(8):446-52.

Beyond BOTOX: advantages and limitations of individual botulinum neurotoxins.

Davletov B(1), Bajohrs M, Binz T.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road,
Cambridge CB2 2QH, UK. email@bazbek.com

Botulinum neurotoxins are the most potent toxins designed by nature. They are
produced by Clostridium bacteria to cause long-lasting paralysis and death.
However, in the past century one member of the botulinum family--botulinum
neurotoxin type A--has been put to good use, and is now widely employed in
clinical neurology and, even more often, in beauty clinics. This article will
critically assess the value of individual members of the botulinum family for
experimental neuroscience and medicine. The seven botulinum neurotoxins all act
by targeting the same vesicle fusion machinery, and yet they cause paralysis of
different durations. The distinct behaviors of botulinum neurotoxins will be
discussed, with the aim of highlighting advantages and limitations for their
future exploitation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.06.001 
PMID: 15979165  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Aug;28(8):408-15.

Memory consolidation and reconsolidation: what is the role of sleep?

Stickgold R(1), Walker MP.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Sleep and Cognition, Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical
School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center E/FD 861, 330 Brookline Avenue,
Boston MA 02215, USA. rstickgold@hms.harvard.edu

Memory consolidation and reconsolidation reflect molecular, cellular and
systems-level processes that convert labile memory representations into more
permanent ones, available for continued reactivation and recall over extended
periods of time. Here, we discuss the complexities of consolidation and
reconsolidation, and suggest they should be viewed not as all-or-none phenomena, 
but as a continuing series of biological adjustments that enhance both the
efficiency and the utility of stored memories over time and in response to
changing needs of the organism. As such, consolidation and reconsolidation might 
be better thought of as memory organization and reorganization. A rapidly growing
body of evidence suggests that many of these processes are optimally engaged
during sleep.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.06.004 
PMID: 15979164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Aug;28(8):416-21.

Altered alpha-synuclein homeostasis causing Parkinson's disease: the potential
roles of dardarin.

Singleton AB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Genetics Unit, National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of
Health, Porter Neuroscience Research Center, Room 1A1000, MSC3707, 35 Lincoln
Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. singleta@mail.nih.gov

The past decade has been a fruitful one for geneticists involved in Parkinson's
disease (PD) research. The initial hurdle of identifying the first gene
underlying parkinsonism was cleared with apparent ease in 1997 and four
additional genes have since been found to contain mutations causing this
disorder. Driving this research is the belief that these data will highlight
disease mechanisms and directly implicate a pathway amenable to therapeutic
intervention. This article will focus on recent genetic advances in the field,
focusing on data that suggest alpha-synuclein expression is key in the etiology
of PD. In addition, it will discuss the recent identification of LRRK2 mutation
as a cause of PD and the potential of this finding to provide further insight
into disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.05.009 
PMID: 15955578  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Aug;28(8):397-400.

Retinoic acid induction of ES-cell-derived neurons: the radial glia connection.

Glaser T(1), Brüstle O.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Reconstructive Neurobiology, University of Bonn Life & Brain
Center and Hertie Foundation, D-53105 Bonn, Germany.

Neuronal induction by retinoic acid (RA) is commonly used in embryonic stem (ES) 
cell differentiation. Two recent papers show that this paradigm induces a
population of neurogenic precursors with properties of radial glia. Upon
differentiation, RA-treated cells give rise to a defined and developmentally
restricted neuronal lineage. This role of RA in cell fate specification provides 
new perspectives for studying the radial glia-neuron transition and for
generating homogenous populations of neurons from ES cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.05.008 
PMID: 15955577  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Aug;28(8):429-35.

Notch to remember.

Costa RM(1), Drew C, Silva AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurobiology, Psychiatry, and Psychology, University of
California-Los Angeles, 695 Young Drive South, Room 2554, Box 951761, Los
Angeles, CA 90095-1761, USA.

Some of the signaling molecules required for formation of long-term memories are 
involved primarily in adult brain function, but others participate in a variety
of other biological processes. The Notch signaling pathway, which is important
for cell fate specification and differentiation in various systems, is also
active in the mature brain. Here, we review evidence from recent studies
indicating that Notch signaling is required for formation of long-term memories, 
and discuss possible memory processes modulated by this pathway. We also consider
the possible involvement of Notch signaling in cognitive disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.05.003 
PMID: 15922461  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jul;28(7):371-8.

Desensitization of nicotinic ACh receptors: shaping cholinergic signaling.

Giniatullin R(1), Nistri A, Yakel JL.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Sector and INFM Unit, International School for Advanced Studies
(SISSA), Via Beirut 4, 34014, Trieste, Italy.

Nicotinic ACh receptors (nAChRs) can undergo desensitization, a reversible
reduction in response during sustained agonist application. Although the
mechanism of desensitization remains incompletely understood, recent
investigations have elucidated new properties underlying desensitization,
indicating that it might be important to control synaptic efficacy, responses to 
cholinergic agents, and certain nAChR-related disease states. Thus, studying how 
different nAChR subunits contribute to desensitization might help to explain
variations in responsiveness to drugs, and might thus improve their therapeutic
applications. Agonist-specific desensitization, desensitization arising from
resting receptors, natural mutations dramatically altering desensitization, and
the possibility that recovery from desensitization is an important process for
modulating receptor function, together provide a new framework for considering
desensitization as a target to shape cholinergic signaling.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.04.009 
PMID: 15979501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jul;28(7):346-7.

Response to Alberini: right answer, wrong question.

Nader K, Hardt O, Wang SH.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jan;28(1):51-6.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.04.011 
PMID: 15979500  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jul;28(7):343-5.

Why doesn't nicotinic ACh receptor immunoreactivity knock out?

Jones IW(1), Wonnacott S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Bath, Bath BA2 7AY, UK. 
i.w.jones@bath.ac.uk

Immunochemical analyses of protein expression and localization rely on the
specificity of primary immunoreagents. A recent report, using transgenic mice,
casts doubt on the specificity of three antibodies commonly used to
immunolocalize alpha7 nicotinic ACh receptors. These data highlight the conundrum
facing histologists--how 'real' is the labelling they see?

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.04.010 
PMID: 15979499  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jul;28(7):341-3.

Self-administering cannabinoids.

Glickfeld LL(1), Scanziani M.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosciences Graduate Program and Division of Biology, University of
California at San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0357, USA.

Endocannabinoids, which are typically released by principal cells in response to 
prolonged depolarization, act as retrograde messengers to inhibit synaptic
transmission. A recent study shows that in a specific subtype of cortical
interneuron, endocannabinoids released under similar circumstances can also act
cell-autonomously. Here, endocannabinoids endow these neurons with a memory of
their own activity in the form of a long-term change in excitability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.05.001 
PMID: 15979498  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jul;28(7):364-70.

Mechanisms for selection of basic motor programs--roles for the striatum and
pallidum.

Grillner S(1), Hellgren J, Ménard A, Saitoh K, Wikström MA.

Author information: 
(1)Nobel Institute for Neurophysiology, Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska
Institutet, SE 17177 Stockholm, Sweden. sten.grillner@neuro.ki.se

The nervous system contains a toolbox of motor programs in the brainstem and
spinal cord--that is, neuronal networks designed to handle the basic motor
repertoire required for survival, including locomotion, posture, eye movements,
breathing, chewing, swallowing and expression of emotions. The neural mechanisms 
responsible for selecting which motor program should be recruited at a given
instant are the focus of this review. Motor programs are kept under tonic
inhibition by GABAergic pallidal neurons (the output nuclei of the basal
ganglia). The motor programs can be relieved from pallidal inhibition through
activation of striatal neurons at the input stage of the basal ganglia. It is
argued that the striatum has a prominent role in selecting which motor program
should be called into action.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.05.004 
PMID: 15935487  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jul;28(7):353-63.

Birdbrains could teach basal ganglia research a new song.

Doupe AJ(1), Perkel DJ, Reiner A, Stern EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Physiology, UCSF, San Francisco, CA 94143-0444,
USA.

Recent advances in anatomical, physiological and histochemical characterization
of avian basal ganglia neurons and circuitry have revealed remarkable
similarities to mammalian basal ganglia. A modern revision of the avian
anatomical nomenclature has now provided a common language for studying the
function of the cortical-basal-ganglia-cortical loop, enabling neuroscientists to
take advantage of the specialization of basal ganglia areas in various avian
species. For instance, songbirds, which learn their vocal motor behavior using
sensory feedback, have specialized a portion of their cortical-basal ganglia
circuitry for song learning and production. This discrete circuit dedicated to a 
specific sensorimotor task could be especially tractable for elucidating the
interwoven sensory, motor and reward signals carried by basal ganglia, and the
function of these signals in task learning and execution.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.05.005 
PMID: 15935486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jul;28(7):387-94.

Neurogeometry and potential synaptic connectivity.

Stepanyants A(1), Chklovskii DB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physics and Center for Interdisciplinary Research on Complex
Systems, Northeastern University, 110 Forsyth Street, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
a.stepanyants@neu.edu

The advent of high-quality 3D reconstructions of neuronal arbors has revived the 
hope of inferring synaptic connectivity from the geometric shapes of axons and
dendrites, or 'neurogeometry'. A quantitative description of connectivity must be
built on a sound theoretical framework. Here, we review recent developments in
neurogeometry that can provide such a framework. We base the geometric
description of connectivity on the concept of a 'potential synapse'--the close
apposition between axons and dendrites necessary to form an actual synapse. In
addition to describing potential synaptic connectivity in neuronal circuits,
neurogeometry provides insight into basic features of functional connectivity,
such as specificity and plasticity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.05.006 
PMID: 15935485  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jul;28(7):379-86.

Black box revisited: a technique for estimating postsynaptic potentials in
neurons.

Türker KS(1), Powers RK.

Author information: 
(1)Discipline of Physiology, School of Molecular and Biomedical Sciences,
University of Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia. kemal.turker@adelaide.edu.au

Our understanding of the operation of the brain depends on knowledge of its
wiring. Currently, the wiring of the human brain is estimated by counting the
number of neuron discharges that occur at specific times following a stimulus.
There is now strong evidence that this approach generates significant errors.
Recently, the accuracy of this 'count' method has been compared directly with an 
alternative 'rate' method in rat brain slices. The results confirmed that the
count method generates significant errors that are minimized by the rate method, 
because the rate of discharge of a neuron accurately displays its excitability at
the time of discharge. Therefore, it is now crucial that the rate method be used 
to reassess previous estimates of the characteristics of wiring in the brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.05.007 
PMID: 15927277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jul;28(7):348-52.

To die or grow: Parkinson's disease and cancer.

West AB(1), Dawson VL, Dawson TM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cell Engineering, and Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. abwest@jhmi.edu

Epidemiological evidence suggests a reduced incidence of many common types of
non-smoking-related cancers in individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD). Genes
that underlie familial forms of PD are often abnormally expressed in cancer,
owing to their differential regulation or mutation. Functional studies implicate 
these genes in maintenance of the cell cycle, in some cases through interaction
in the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Variation in genes associated with
familial-linked PD could therefore modify susceptibility to both cancer and PD,
implying some degree of overlap in the underlying biochemical dysfunction. When
considering the normal function of these PD-linked genes in the periphery and
their potential role in cancer, further emphasis might be placed on protein
handling relating to cell-cycle control in the etiology of PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.05.002 
PMID: 15913799  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jun;28(6):334-40.

Impaired and repaired inhibitory circuits in the epileptic human hippocampus.

Maglóczky Z(1), Freund TF.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest,
POB 67, H-1450, Hungary.

This review focuses on the epileptic human temporal lobe, primarily on recent
findings related to changes in hippocampal GABAergic interneuron circuits that
have a central role in epileptogenesis. Relying on correlations to animal
studies, we provide a functional interpretation of the different changes in
perisomatic inhibition (controlling output synchrony) and dendritic inhibition
(controlling input plasticity), and the potential consequences of the loss of
interneuron-selective interneurons. The highly heterogeneous, but specific,
alterations of GABAergic interneuron circuits have important implications for the
pharmacotherapy of epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.04.002 
PMID: 15927690  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jun;28(6):325-33.

Rhythmic and dysrhythmic thalamocortical dynamics: GABA systems and the edge
effect.

Llinás R(1), Urbano FJ, Leznik E, Ramírez RR, van Marle HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Neuroscience, New York University School of
Medicine, 550 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016, USA. llinar01@popmail.med.nyu.edu

Brain function is fundamentally related in the most general sense to the richness
of thalamocortical interconnectivity, and in particular to the rhythmic
oscillatory properties of thalamocortical loops. Such rhythmicity is involved in 
the genesis of cognition, in the sleep-wake cycle, and in several neurological
and psychiatric disorders. The role of GABA-mediated transmission in regulating
these functional states is addressed here. At the cortical level, inhibition
determines the spread of cortical activation by sculpting the precise activity
patterns that underlie the details of cognition and motor control. At the
thalamic level, GABA-mediated inhibition modulates and resets distribution of the
ongoing thalamocortical rhythmic oscillations that bind multisensory inputs into 
a single cognitive experience and regulate arousal levels.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.04.006 
PMID: 15927689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jun;28(6):317-24.

Sleep, epilepsy and thalamic reticular inhibitory neurons.

Steriade M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurophysiologie, Faculté de Médecine, Université Laval,
Québec, Canada G1K 7P4. mircea.steriade@phs.ulaval.ca

Thalamic reticular neurons release the potent inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA
and their main targets are thalamocortical neurons in the dorsal thalamus. This
article focuses on two topics: (i) the role of thalamic reticular neurons in the 
initiation of spindles, a hallmark oscillation during early sleep stages; and
(ii) the reticular-induced inhibition of thalamocortical neurons during
cortically generated spike-wave seizures. Although hotly debated during the past 
decade, the idea of spindle generation by a network of GABAergic reticular
neurons was recently supported by in vivo and in computo studies demonstrating
interactions between inhibitory reticular neurons that lead to spindle sequences.
During spike-wave seizures and electrical paroxysms of the Lennox-Gastaut type,
which arise in the neocortex, reticular neurons are powerfully excited through
corticofugal projections and they produce prolonged inhibitory postsynaptic
potentials in thalamocortical neurons. Thus, GABAergic reticular neurons are
crucial in the generation of some sleep rhythms, which produce synaptic
plasticity, and in inhibiting external signals through thalamocortical neurons,
which leads to unconsciousness during absence epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.03.007 
PMID: 15927688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jun;28(6):310-6.

Lighting the chandelier: new vistas for axo-axonic cells.

Howard A(1), Tamas G, Soltesz I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of California, Irvine, CA
92697, USA. ahoward@uci.edu

Chandelier or axo-axonic cells are the most selective of all cortical GABAergic
interneurons, because they exclusively contact axon initial segments of cortical 
glutamatergic neurons. Owing to their privileged location on initial segments,
axo-axonic cells have often been assumed to have the ultimate control of
pyramidal cell output. Recently, key molecules expressed at the initial-segment
synapses have been identified, and novel in vitro and in vivo
electrophysiological studies have revealed unexpectedly versatile functional
effects exerted by axo-axonic cells on their postsynaptic targets. In addition,
there is also emerging recognition of the mechanistic involvement of these unique
cells in several neurological diseases, including epilepsy and schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.04.004 
PMID: 15927687  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jun;28(6):304-9.

Electrical synapses define networks of neocortical GABAergic neurons.

Hestrin S(1), Galarreta M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Comparative Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine,
300 Pasteur Drive, R314, Stanford, CA 94305-5342, USA. shaul.hestrin@stanford.edu

Recent work using paired recording has provided a direct demonstration of
functional electrical synapses between neocortical neurons of both juvenile and
adult animals. Electrical synapses have been found among GABAergic interneurons
but not pyramidal cells. Interestingly, necortical electrical synapses almost
exclusively connect GABAergic neurons belonging to the same class. So far, at
least five different neocortical networks defined by extensive and selective
electrical coupling have been studied in the neocortex. These results could
provide important clues to the understanding of functional cortical circuitry.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.04.001 
PMID: 15927686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jun;28(6):297-303.

The dual glutamatergic-GABAergic phenotype of hippocampal granule cells.

Gutiérrez R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Fisiología, Biofísica y Neurociencias, Centro de Investigación
y de Estudios Avanzados, Apartado Postal 14-740, México City, DF 07000, México.
grafael@fisio.cinvestav.mx

Markers of the glutamatergic and GABAergic phenotypes coexist in developing
hippocampal granule cells, and activation of these neurons produces simultaneous 
glutamate-receptor-mediated and GABA-receptor-mediated responses in their
postsynaptic cells. In the adult, markers of the GABAergic phenotype and the
consequent GABAergic transmission disappear but can be transiently expressed in
an activity-dependent manner. Coexistence of glutamate and GABA in neurons from
other regions of the brain is being discovered, and the possibility of these
neurotransmitters being co-released gives the CNS a powerful computational tool. 
Although waiting to be confirmed by paired recordings, the hypothesis that
glutamate and GABA are co-released from single cells is a valuable heuristic
proposal in understanding the plasticity inherent to neuronal communication.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.04.005 
PMID: 15927685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jun;28(6):290-6.

Developmental refinement of inhibitory sound-localization circuits.

Kandler K(1), Gillespie DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Center for the Neuronal Basis of Cognition,
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 3500 Terrace Street, Pittsburgh, PA 
15261, USA. kkarl@pitt.edu

The ability to localize sound rapidly and accurately depends on the precise
organization of inhibitory neuronal circuits in the auditory brainstem. However, 
the rules and mechanisms by which this precision is established during
development are still poorly understood. Although activity-dependent
reorganization has been known for over a decade to have a central role in this
process, more recent studies have revealed an unanticipated degree of
reorganization that occurs on levels ranging from cellular phenotype to network
connectivity. These results suggest novel mechanisms by which immature inhibitory
sound-localization circuits become optimized. Lessons from auditory brainstem
circuits thus could provide insight into inhibitory development in other brain
areas, where inhibitory networks are less experimentally accessible.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.04.007 
PMCID: PMC4120098
PMID: 15927684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jun;28(6):284-9.

Excitatory effects of GABA in established brain networks.

Marty A(1), Llano I.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Physiologie Cérébrale, Université Paris 5/CNRS, 45 Rue des
Saints Pères, 75006 Paris, France. alain.marty@univ-paris5.fr

Although GABA remains the predominant inhibitory neurotransmitter of the brain,
there are numerous recent examples of excitatory actions of GABA. These actions
can be classified in two broad categories: phasic excitatory effects, as follow
single activation of GABAergic afferents, and sustained excitatory effects, as
follow prolonged activation of GABA(A) receptors. Evidence reviewed here
indicates that, contrary to common belief, these effects are not restricted to
embryonic or neonatal preparations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.04.003 
PMID: 15927683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jun;28(6):278-83.

Trophic actions of GABA on neuronal development.

Represa A(1), Ben-Ari Y.

Author information: 
(1)INMED/INSERM U29, Parc Scientifique et Technologique de Luminy, Marseille,
France. represa@inmed.univ-mrs.fr

During brain development, transmitter-gated receptors are operative before
synapse formation, suggesting that their action is not restricted to synaptic
transmission. GABA, which is the principal excitatory transmitter in the
developing brain, acts as an epigenetic factor to control processes including
cell proliferation, neuroblast migration and dendritic maturation. These effects 
appear to be mediated through a paracrine, diffuse, non-synaptic mode of action
that precedes the more focused, rapid mode of operation characteristic of
synaptic connections. This sequential operation implies that GABA is used as an
informative agent but in a unique context at an early developmental stage. This
sequence also implies that by altering these effects, drugs acting on the GABA
system could be pathogenic during pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.03.010 
PMID: 15927682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Trends Neurosci. 2005 May;28(5):272-6.

Emerging properties of cannabinoid medicines in management of multiple sclerosis.

Pryce G(1), Baker D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroinflammation, Institute of Neurology, University College
London, 1 Wakefield Street, London, WC1N 1PJ, UK. g.pryce@ion.ucl.ac.uk

Use of cannabis as a medicine for numerous conditions has a well-documented
history stretching back thousands of years. With the identification of an
endogenous system of receptors and ligands in recent years, abundant experimental
data have reinforced the anecdotal claims of people who perceive medicinal
benefit from the currently illegal consumption of cannabis. This, combined with
data from recent clinical trials, points to the prospect of cannabis as a
medication in the treatment of multiple sclerosis and numerous other medical
conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.03.006 
PMID: 15866202  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Trends Neurosci. 2005 May;28(5):264-71.

Multisensory spatial interactions: a window onto functional integration in the
human brain.

Macaluso E(1), Driver J.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimaging Laboratory, Fondazione Santa Lucia, IRCCS, Via Ardeatina,
306-00179 Rome, Italy. e.macaluso@hsantalucia.it

Incoming signals from different sensory modalities are initially processed in
separate brain regions. But because these different signals can arise from common
events or objects in the external world, integration between them can be useful. 
Such integration is subject to spatial and temporal constraints, presumably
because a common source is more likely for information arising from around the
same place and time. This review focuses on recent neuroimaging data concerning
spatial aspects of multisensory integration in the human brain. These findings
indicate not only that multisensory integration involves anatomical convergence
from sensory-specific ('unimodal') cortices into multisensory ('heteromodal')
brain areas, but also that multisensory spatial interactions can affect even
so-called 'unimodal' brain regions. Such findings call for a revision of
traditional assumptions about multisensory processing in the brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.03.008 
PMID: 15866201  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Trends Neurosci. 2005 May;28(5):255-63.

Auditory thalamocortical transformation: structure and function.

Winer JA(1), Miller LM, Lee CC, Schreiner CE.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurobiology, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University
of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-3200, USA. jawiner@socrates.berkeley.edu

Communicative, predatory, and reproductive behaviors rely on the auditory
thalamocortical system, a key nexus that combines, transforms, and distributes
virtually all acoustic information relevant to survival. The rules of
connectivity for this complex network, both anatomically and functionally, are
only beginning to be uncovered. Although the auditory thalamocortical system
shares many features with other modalities, its connectivity and information
processing principles differ from those of other modalities in many ways. Some
physiological and anatomical bases for these differences are the subject of this 
review.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.03.009 
PMID: 15866200  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Trends Neurosci. 2005 May;28(5):248-54.

Integrating new neurons into the adult olfactory bulb: joining the network,
life-death decisions, and the effects of sensory experience.

Lledo PM(1), Saghatelyan A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Perception and Memory, Centre National de la Recherche
Scientifique, Unité de Recherche Associée 2182, Pasteur Institute, 25 rue du
Docteur Roux, 75724 Paris Cedex 15, France. pmlledo@pasteur.fr

In contrast to the situation in the developing brain, neurons born during
adulthood must integrate into established neuronal networks characterized by
ongoing activity. For sensory systems, this neuronal activity is driven mainly by
external stimuli that can lead to experience-dependent morpho-functional changes 
in adult circuits. Here, we describe new insights into the mechanisms by which
sensory experience might govern the targeting of adult-generated neurons to
appropriate regions, their differentiation into distinct neuronal subtypes, and
finally their survival in the adult olfactory bulb. We propose not only that
neurogenesis depends on the degree of sensory experience, but also that new
neurons bring unique features to the operational network, allowing a continuous
adjustment of information processing in response to an ever-changing external
word.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.03.005 
PMID: 15866199  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Trends Neurosci. 2005 May;28(5):239-47.

Genetics moving to neuronal networks.

Kullander K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Uppsala University, Box 593, 75124 Uppsala,
Sweden. klas.kullander@neuro.uu.se

Neuronal circuits are essential components of the nervous system and determine
various body functions. To understand how neuronal circuits operate it is
necessary to identify the participating neuronal subpopulations and to dissect
the function of the neurons at the molecular level. The locomotor central pattern
generator that coordinates body movements is well suited for elucidating the
assembly and identity of the participating neurons. Remarkable advances in the
field of genetics are making studies in neuroscience more efficient and precise
so that now, using nematode worms, fruit flies, zebrafish and mice as model
organisms, a genetic approach can be used to identify molecules and neurons
crucial for locomotor network functionality.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.03.001 
PMID: 15866198  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Trends Neurosci. 2005 May;28(5):229-38.

Homeostatic plasticity and NMDA receptor trafficking.

Pérez-Otaño I(1), Ehlers MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, CIMA, University of Navarra Medical School,
Pamplona, 31008, Spain.

Learning, memory and brain development are associated with long-lasting
modifications of synapses that are guided by specific patterns of neuronal
activity. Such modifications include classical Hebbian plasticities (such as
long-term potentiation and long-term depression), which are rapid and
synapse-specific, and others, such as synaptic scaling and metaplasticity, that
work over longer timescales and are crucial for maintaining and orchestrating
neuronal network function. The cellular mechanisms underlying Hebbian plasticity 
have been well studied and involve rapid changes in the trafficking of highly
mobile AMPA receptors. An emerging concept is that activity-dependent alterations
in NMDA receptor trafficking contribute to homeostatic plasticity at central
glutamatergic synapses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.03.004 
PMID: 15866197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Trends Neurosci. 2005 May;28(5):222-8.

Timing in synaptic plasticity: from detection to integration.

Bi GQ(1), Rubin J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition,
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA.
gqbi@pitt.edu

Timing of cellular and subcellular events contributes to spiking-induced
modification of synapses in a variety of ways. Initially, the timing of
presynaptic and postsynaptic action potentials must be translated into signals
that can initiate intracellular processes. Recent experimental and computational 
findings suggest that the spatiotemporal details of such signals, in particular
the time courses and locations of postsynaptic Ca(2+) transients, might
themselves be crucial for driving potentiation and depression modules that
interact in a time-dependent way to determine plasticity outcomes. On longer
timescales, the effects of multiple spikes are integrated in a nonlinear manner, 
yielding non-intuitive plasticity results that are likely to be sensitive to
local conditions and, finally, additional elements must be called into action to 
stabilize changes in synaptic strengths. This review is part of the TINS Synaptic
Connectivity series.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.02.002 
PMID: 15866196  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Trends Neurosci. 2005 May;28(5):219-21.

SOX2 functions in adult neural stem cells.

Episkopou V(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC, Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College Medical School, Hammersmith
Hospital Campus, Du Cane Road, London W12 0NN, UK. vasso.episkopou@csc.mrc.ac.uk

Sox2 is expressed highly in the neuroepithelium of the developing CNS and has
been shown to function in neural stem cells. Because Sox2-null mutant mice fail
to develop beyond implantation, the role of SOX2 in the CNS has lacked
validation. A new genetic model addresses the role of SOX2 in the adult brain and
provides evidence that it is involved in the maintenance of neurons in specific
regions, in the proliferation and/or maintenance of neural stem cells, and in
neurogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.03.003 
PMID: 15866195  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Trends Neurosci. 2005 May;28(5):217-9.

A multi-photon window onto neuronal-glial-vascular communication.

Hirase H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuronal Circuit Mechanisms Research Group, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 2-1
Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama 351-0198, Japan. hirase@brain.riken.jp

The cellular components of the brain are neurons, glia and vascular cells. These 
three entities form a metabolic network to sustain brain activity. Interactions
among these cell types have been studied extensively in vitro, where the cells
are easily accessible to physiological and pharmacological manipulations. With
the advent of optical tools, it has become possible to investigate the cerebral
metabolic network in vitro at the cellular and subcellular levels. However, the
metabolic and homeostatic nature of neuronal-glial-vascular interactions must
eventually be examined in vivo, and multi-photon imaging now provides a means to 
monitor neurovascular units in living experimental animals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.03.002 
PMID: 15866194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Apr;28(4):209-16.

High-frequency stimulation in Parkinson's disease: more or less?

Garcia L(1), D'Alessandro G, Bioulac B, Hammond C.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de neurophysiologie (Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique 
UMR 5543), Université de Bordeaux 2,146 rue Léo Saignat, 33076 Bordeaux Cedex,
France.

Deep-brain stimulation at high frequency is now considered the most effective
neurosurgical therapy for movement disorders. An electrode is chronically
implanted in a particular area of the brain and, when continuously stimulated, it
significantly alleviates motor symptoms. In Parkinson's disease, common target
nuclei of high-frequency stimulation (HFS) are ventral thalamic nuclei and basal 
ganglia nuclei, such as the internal segment of the pallidum and the subthalamic 
nucleus (STN), with a preference for the STN in recent years. Two fundamental
mechanisms have been proposed to underlie the beneficial effects of HFS:
silencing or excitation of STN neurons. Relying on recent experimental data, we
suggest that both are instrumental: HFS switches off a pathological disrupted
activity in the STN (a 'less' mechanism) and imposes a new type of discharge in
the upper gamma-band frequency that is endowed with beneficial effects (a 'more' 
mechanism). The intrinsic capacity of basal ganglia and particular STN neurons to
generate oscillations and shift rapidly from a physiological to a pathogenic
pattern is pivotal in the operation of these circuits in health and disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.02.005 
PMID: 15808356  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Apr;28(4):202-8.

Neurovascular mechanisms of Alzheimer's neurodegeneration.

Zlokovic BV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Frank P. Smith Laboratories for Neuroscience and Neurological Surgery
Research, Department of Neurological Surgery and Division of Neurovascular
Biology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, NY 14642, USA.
berislav_zlokovic@urmc.rochester.edu

In contrast to traditional neuroncentric views of Alzheimer's disease (AD),
recent findings indicate that neurovascular dysfunction contributes to cognitive 
decline and neurodegeneration in AD. Here, I propose the neurovascular hypothesis
of AD, suggesting that faulty clearance of amyloid beta peptide (A beta) across
the blood-brain barrier (BBB), aberrant angiogenesis and senescence of the
cerebrovascular system could initiate neurovascular uncoupling, vessel
regression, brain hypoperfusion and neurovascular inflammation. Ultimately, this 
would lead to BBB compromise, to chemical imbalance in the neuronal environment
and to synaptic and neuronal dysfunction, injury and loss. Based on the
neurovascular hypothesis, I suggest an array of new potential therapeutic
approaches that could be developed for AD, to enhance A beta clearance and
neurovascular repair, and to protect the neurovascular unit from divergent
inducers of injury and apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.02.001 
PMID: 15808355  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Apr;28(4):196-201.

A molecular and genetic arsenal for systems neuroscience.

Callaway EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Systems Neurobiology Laboratories, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, 
10010 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. callaway@salk.edu

Neural circuits are composed of a meshwork of numerous neuron types, each with
their own distinctive morphological and intrinsic physiological properties,
connectivity and biochemistry. How do distinct neural subcircuits, composed of
different classes of neuron, contribute to brain function? Approaching this
question requires methods that can target specific neurons types. This can be
achieved by harnessing the same machinery that builds sophistication into the
brain and using it to make novel tools for investigating and manipulating the
brain: molecular and genetic technology. These tools can be used to target gene
expression to specific neuron types within complicated neuronal circuits, and the
transgenes that are expressed can be used to elucidate and manipulate these
circuits with unprecedented precision and control. These methods are likely to
become the archetype for future studies linking perception, cognition and
behavior to specific components of the brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.01.007 
PMID: 15808354  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Apr;28(4):188-95.

Emerging complexities in identity and function of glial connexins.

Theis M(1), Söhl G, Eiberger J, Willecke K.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Genetik, Abteilung Molekulargenetik, Universität Bonn,
Römerstrasse 164, D-53117 Bonn, Germany.

Recent research results indicate that glial gap-junction communication is much
more complex and widespread than originally thought, and has diverse roles in
brain homeostasis and the response of the brain to injury. The situation is far
from clear, however. Pharmacological agents that block gap junctions can abolish 
neuron-glia long-range signaling and can alleviate neuronal damage whereas,
intriguingly, opposite effects are observed in mice lacking connexin43, a major
gap-junction subunit protein in astrocytes. How can the apparently contradictory 
results be explained, and how is specificity achieved within the glial
gap-junction system? Another key issue in understanding glial connexin function
is that oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, each of which express distinct connexin 
isotypes, are thought to participate in brain homeostasis by forming a panglial
syncytium. Molecular analysis has revealed a surprising diversity of connexin
expression and function, and this has led to new hypotheses regarding their roles
in the brain, which could be tested using new approaches.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.02.006 
PMID: 15808353  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Apr;28(4):182-7.

Spine architecture and synaptic plasticity.

Carlisle HJ(1), Kennedy MB.

Author information: 
(1)California Institute of Technology, Division of Biology 216-76, Pasadena, CA
91125, USA.

Many forms of mental retardation and cognitive disability are associated with
abnormalities in dendritic spine morphology. Visualization of spines using
live-imaging techniques provides convincing evidence that spine morphology is
altered in response to certain forms of LTP-inducing stimulation. Thus,
information storage at the cellular level appears to involve changes in spine
morphology that support changes in synaptic strength produced by certain patterns
of synaptic activity. Because the structure of a spine is determined by its
underlying actin cytoskeleton, there has been much effort to identify signaling
pathways linking synaptic activity to control of actin polymerization. This
review, part of the TINS Synaptic Connectivity series, discusses recent studies
that implicate EphB and NMDA receptors in the regulation of actin-binding
proteins through modulation of Rho family small GTPases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.01.008 
PMID: 15808352  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Apr;28(4):176-81.

Brainstem origins for cortical 'what' and 'where' pathways in the auditory
system.

Kraus N(1), Nicol T.

Author information: 
(1)Auditory Neuroscience Laboratory, Northwestern University, Frances Searle
Building, 2240 Campus Drive, Evanston, IL 60208, USA. nkraus@northwestern.edu

We have developed a data-driven conceptual framework that links two areas of
science: the source-filter model of acoustics and cortical sensory processing
streams. The source-filter model describes the mechanics behind speech
production: the identity of the speaker is carried largely in the vocal cord
source and the message is shaped by the ever-changing filters of the vocal tract.
Sensory processing streams, popularly called 'what' and 'where' pathways, are
well established in the visual system as a neural scheme for separately carrying 
different facets of visual objects, namely their identity and their
position/motion, to the cortex. A similar functional organization has been
postulated in the auditory system. Both speaker identity and the spoken message, 
which are simultaneously conveyed in the acoustic structure of speech, can be
disentangled into discrete brainstem response components. We argue that these two
response classes are early manifestations of auditory 'what' and 'where' streams 
in the cortex. This brainstem link forges a new understanding of the relationship
between the acoustics of speech and cortical processing streams, unites two
hitherto separate areas in science, and provides a model for future
investigations of auditory function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.02.003 
PMID: 15808351  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Apr;28(4):173-5.

Multiple sclerosis: novel perspectives on newly forming lesions.

Matute C(1), Pérez-Cerdá F.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Neurociencias, Universidad del País Vasco, E-48940 Leioa,
Vizcaya, Spain. onpmaalc@lg.ehu.es

The mechanisms underlying lesion formation in multiple sclerosis are unknown. The
prevailing view is that macrophages are primary mediators of myelin destruction
in the relapsing and remitting forms of this disease. However, recent findings
have revealed widespread oligodendrocyte apoptosis in the absence of a clear
cellular immune response. These observations unveil a novel aspect of the
pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis that is worthy of further exploration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.01.006 
PMID: 15808350  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Apr;28(4):171-2.

Stress in early life inhibits neurogenesis in adulthood.

Karten YJ(1), Olariu A, Cameron HA.

Author information: 
(1)Unit on Neuroplasticity 35/3C915, National Institute of Mental Health,
National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human Services, Bethesda,
MD 20892, USA.

Both structure and function of the hippocampus are altered by stress: by
increasing levels of corticosteroids, stress causes atrophy of CA3 pyramidal cell
dendrites, inhibits adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus, and impairs
hippocampus-dependent learning. A recent study shows that adverse experience
limited to early life, specifically removal of rat pups from their mother for
three hours each day, decreases production of new granule neurons in adulthood
through a corticosteroid-dependent mechanism. This finding suggests that stress
in early life could permanently impair hippocampus-dependent learning and memory 
and increase susceptibility to depression by inhibiting adult neurogenesis in the
hippocampus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.01.009 
PMID: 15808349  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Apr;28(4):169-70.

Complementary memory systems: competition, cooperation and compensation.

Hartley T(1), Burgess N.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, 17 Queen
Square, London WC1N 3AR, UK.

Spatial navigation depends on dissociable memory systems that have distinct
neural bases and employ different forms of representation. One system gradually
acquires reliable sequences of responses to given situations (e.g. repeatedly
following a fixed route), and depends on the striatum. The other develops
flexible representations permitting novel responses (e.g. finding new shortcuts),
and depends on the hippocampus. Voermans and colleagues explore the interaction
between these two systems using functional neuroimaging and behavioural measures 
in a clinical population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.02.004 
PMID: 15808348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Mar;28(3):158-67.

Space matters: local and global dendritic Ca2+ compartmentalization in cortical
interneurons.

Goldberg JH(1), Yuste R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027,
USA. jhg24@columbia.edu

Dendrites of pyramidal neurons are complex, electrically active structures that
can produce local and global Ca(2+) compartments. Recent studies indicate that
dendrites of cortical GABAergic interneurons are also highly specialized, and
that different subtypes vary in their morphology, in their intrinsic and synaptic
conductances and in the Ca(2+) signals they generate. Because interneurons play a
major role in oscillations, understanding their dendrites could offer key
insights into rhythmogenesis. Different interneuron subtypes have different
synaptic integration properties and generate differentially timed inhibition at
distinct sites of the pyramidal neuraxis. In addition, interneuron dendrites
generate diverse Ca(2+) signals that reflect this circuit function and probably
also implement subclass-specific plasticity and homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.01.005 
PMID: 15749170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Mar;28(3):152-7.

The hypothalamic integrator for circadian rhythms.

Saper CB(1), Lu J, Chou TC, Gooley J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Program in Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School
and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA.
csaper@bidmc.harvard.edu

Although the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is well established as providing a
genetically based clock for timing circadian rhythms, the mechanisms by which the
timing signal is translated into circadian rhythms of behavior and underlying
physiology have only recently come to light. The bulk of the SCN outflow
terminates in a column of tissue that arches upward and backward from the SCN,
and which includes the subparaventricular zone (SPZ) and the dorsomedial nucleus 
of the hypothalamus. Neurons within the dorsal SPZ are necessary for organizing
circadian rhythms of body temperature, whereas neurons in the ventral SPZ are
needed for circadian rhythms of sleep and waking. Ventral SPZ neurons in turn
relay to the dorsomedial nucleus, which is crucial for producing circadian
rhythms of sleep and waking, locomotor activity, feeding and corticosteroid
production. This multistage processor provides the animal with flexibility so
that environmental cues, such as food availability, ambient temperature and
social interactions, can be integrated with the clock signal to sculpt an
adaptive pattern of rhythmic daily activities that maximize the chances of
survival and reproduction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.12.009 
PMID: 15749169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Mar;28(3):145-51.

Orchestrating time: arrangements of the brain circadian clock.

Antle MC(1), Silver R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Calgary, 2500 University Drive NW,
Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4, Canada. antlem@ucalgary.ca

Daily oscillations in physiology and behavior are regulated by a brain clock
located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Individual cells within this
nucleus contain an autonomous molecular clock. Recent discoveries that make use
of new molecular and genetic data and tools highlight the conclusion that the SCN
is a heterogeneous network of functionally and phenotypically differentiated
cells. Neurons within SCN subregions serve distinctly separate functions in
regulating the overall activity of the circadian clock: some cells within the SCN
rhythmically express "clock" genes, whereas others exhibit induced expression of 
these genes after the organism has been exposed to a light pulse. The coordinated
interaction of these functionally distinct cells is integral to the coherent
functioning of the brain clock.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.01.003 
PMID: 15749168  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Mar;28(3):140-4.

Fishing for key players in mechanotransduction.

Nicolson T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Oregon Hearing Research Center and Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science
University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Road, Portland, OR 97239, USA.
nicolson@ohsu.edu

The senses of touch and hearing involve transduction of mechanical stimuli into
electrical signals. The search for components of the transduction apparatus in
mechanosensory neurons has benefited greatly from genetic approaches using both
invertebrates and vertebrates. A consensus model has emerged that includes
extracellular and intracellular structural components arranged around a central
mechanically gated channel. In the sensory hair cell of the inner ear, the
extracellular structural component thought to have a key role in opening the
transduction channel is the tip link. Although elusive for decades, recent
studies have yielded candidates for both the transduction channel and the tip
link in hair cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.12.008 
PMID: 15749167  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Mar;28(3):133-9.

Surface trafficking of receptors between synaptic and extrasynaptic membranes:
and yet they do move!

Triller A(1), Choquet D.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM UR497, Ecole Normale Supérieure, 46 Rue d'Ulm, Paris F75005, France.
triller@wotan.ens.fr

Concentration of neurotransmitter receptors at synapses is thought to result from
stable binding to subsynaptic scaffold proteins. Recent data on synaptic
plasticity have shown that changes in synaptic strength derive partly from
modification of postsynaptic receptor numbers. This has led to the notion of
receptor trafficking into and out of synapses. The proposed underlying mechanisms
have under-evaluated the role of extrasynaptic receptors. Recent technological
advances have allowed imaging of receptor movements at the single-molecule level,
and these experiments demonstrate that receptors switch at unexpected rates
between extrasynaptic and synaptic localizations by lateral diffusion. Variation 
in receptor numbers at postsynaptic sites is therefore likely to depend on
regulation of diffusion by modification of the structure of the membrane and/or
by transient interactions with scaffolding proteins. This review is part of the
TINS Synaptic Connectivity series.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.01.001 
PMID: 15749166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Mar;28(3):127-32.

Song learning in birds: diversity and plasticity, opportunities and challenges.

Brenowitz EA(1), Beecher MD.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Psychology and Biology, University of Washington, Box 351525,
Seattle, WA 98195-1525, USA. eliotb@u.washington.edu

A common trend in neuroscience is convergence on selected model systems.
Underlying this approach is an often implicit assumption that mechanisms observed
in one species are characteristic of all related species. Although the model
system approach has been extremely productive, it might not account for all of
the mechanistic differences between species that differ behaviourally. Using the 
neural system that regulates song learning in songbirds as an example, we
demonstrate how integrating model system and comparative approaches can lead to a
more complete picture of neural mechanisms, and can resolve issues raised by a
focus on selected species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.01.004 
PMID: 15749165  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Mar;28(3):120-6.

Functional MRI using molecular imaging agents.

Jasanoff A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nuclear Science & Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, NW14-2213, 150 Albany Street, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
jasanoff@mit.edu

Contrast agents for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) have recently been used as
cellular-level probes of neural function. New in vivo labeling strategies now
enable researchers to follow plasticity of brain activation patterns and cellular
structure over time. On the horizon is the prospect that molecular imaging agents
specifically designed for functional imaging (fMRI) on a relatively fast
timescale could offer an alternative to conventional hemodynamics-based
approaches. Development of several MRI sensors has defined principles by which
imaging agents for "molecular fMRI" can be constructed; application of engineered
sensors for cellular-level correlates of neuronal activity would allow
researchers to combine the noninvasiveness of MRI with spatial resolution of tens
of microns and temporal resolution of 100ms or less. Facilitated by advances in
imaging-agent delivery methods and model systems appropriate for high-resolution 
neuroimaging, novel molecular imaging strategies continue to potentiate MRI as a 
tool for mechanistic investigation of neural systems.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.12.007 
PMID: 15749164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Mar;28(3):117-9.

Why glucose transport in the brain matters for PET.

Barros LF(1), Porras OH, Bittner CX.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Estudios Científicos CECS, Arturo Prat 514, Casilla 1469, Valdivia, 
Chile. fbarros@cecs.cl

Neuronal activity is fueled by glucose metabolism, a phenomenon exploited in
basic research and clinical diagnosis using fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission 
tomography (FDG-PET). According to the current view, glucose transport into the
brain is not rate-limiting; thus, it cannot exert control over metabolism. This
article challenges such a view by showing that basal transport hovers near its
maximum, making metabolic activation unable to increase flux on its own. In the
light of recent evidence on the identity of the cell type that preferentially
breaks down glucose, we suggest that FDG-PET reports the synergistic activation
of glucose transport and metabolism in astrocytes, rather than in neurons.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2005.01.002 
PMID: 15749163  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Feb;28(2):108-15.

Multiple facets of GABAergic neurons and synapses: multiple fates of GABA
signalling in epilepsies.

Cossart R(1), Bernard C, Ben-Ari Y.

Author information: 
(1)INMED-INSERM, 163 Route de Luminy, 13273 Marseille Cedex 09, Marseille,
France.

Because blocking GABAergic neurotransmission in control tissue generates seizures
and because GABA boosters control epilepsy in many patients, studies on
epilepsies have been dominated by the axiom that seizures are generated by a
failure of GABA-mediated inhibition. However, GABAergic interneurons and synapses
are heterogeneous and have many roles that go beyond the straightforward concept 
of "inhibition of the target". Operation of such a diversified system cannot be
ascribed to a single mechanism. In epileptic tissue, GABAergic networks undergo
complex rewiring at the anatomical, physiological and functional levels;
GABAergic synapses are still operative but show unique features, including
excitatory effects. Therefore, inhibition is not a uniform notion and the concept
of "failure" of inhibition in epilepsies must be reassessed. Seizures are not
generated in a normal circuit in which GABA-mediated inhibition is simply
impaired, but in a profoundly rewired network in which several properties of GABA
function are altered. This review is part of the TINS Interneuron Diversity
series.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.11.011 
PMID: 15667934  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Feb;28(2):101-7.

Neuropathic pain and spinal microglia: a big problem from molecules in "small"
glia.

Tsuda M(1), Inoue K, Salter MW.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biosignaling, National Institute of Health Sciences, 1-18-1
Kamiyoga, Setagaya, Tokyo 158-8501, Japan.

Neuropathic pain is a common and severely disabling state that affects millions
of people worldwide. Such pain can be experienced after nerve injury or as part
of diseases that affect peripheral nerve function, such as diabetes and AIDS; it 
can also be a component of pain in other conditions, such as cancer. Following
peripheral nerve injury, microglia in the spinal cord become activated. Recent
evidence indicates that activated microglia are key cellular intermediaries in
the pathogenesis of nerve injury-induced pain hypersensitivity because P2X(4)
purinoceptors and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase, which are present in
activated microglia, are required molecular mediators. It is important to
establish how these molecules are activated in spinal microglia following nerve
injury and how they cause signaling to neurons in the dorsal horn pain
transmission network. Answers to these questions could lead to new strategies
that assist in the diagnosis and management of neuropathic pain--strategies not
previously anticipated by a neuron-centric view of pain plasticity in the dorsal 
horn.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.12.002 
PMID: 15667933  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Feb;28(2):93-100.

Synaptic mechanisms of the cerebellar cortical network.

Nakanishi S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Department of
Molecular and System Biology, Graduate School of Biostudies, Kyoto University,
Kyoto 606-8501, Japan. snakanis@phy.med.kyoto-u.ac.jp

The cerebellar cortex forms a defined array of relatively simple neural networks.
Considerable progress has been made towards understanding the synaptic mechanisms
of these networks. It has been revealed that inhibitory GABA receptors and
distinct types of glutamate receptor cooperatively and differentially regulate
and integrate glutamate-mediated transmission within cerebellar cortical
circuits. In addition, molecular assembly of receptor-interacting scaffolding
proteins and signaling molecules is dynamically controlled and underlies the
functional synaptic organization of cerebellar cortical circuits. This article
discusses some of the recent progress in this area, focusing on newly explored
aspects of the synaptic mechanisms of glutamate-mediated transmission in the
cerebellar cortical network.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.12.004 
PMID: 15667932  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Feb;28(2):86-92.

Cell transplantation in Parkinson's disease: how can we make it work?

Winkler C(1), Kirik D, Björklund A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Hannover Medical School, 30625 Hannover, Germany.
winkler.christian@mh-hannover.de

Previous open-label clinical trials have provided proof of principle that
intrastriatal transplants of fetal dopaminergic neurons can induce substantial
and long-lasting functional benefits in patients with Parkinson's disease.
However, in two recent NIH-sponsored double-blind trials, functional improvements
were only marginal and the primary endpoints were not met. Severe off-phase
dyskinesias were observed in a significant proportion of the transplanted
patients, raising doubts about the viability of the cell-transplantation
approach. Here, we discuss the problems raised by the NIH-sponsored trials and
point to several shortcomings that might explain the overall poor outcome, and we
identify several crucial issues that remain to be resolved to develop cell
replacement into an effective and safe therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.12.006 
PMID: 15667931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Feb;28(2):79-85.

Similarities between actions of estrogen and BDNF in the hippocampus: coincidence
or clue?

Scharfman HE(1), Maclusky NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Recovery and Rehabilitation Research, Helen Hayes Hospital, 
Route 9W, West Haverstraw, NY 10993-1195, USA. scharfmanh@helenhayeshosp.org

The principal ovarian estrogen, estradiol, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor 
(BDNF) have widespread effects on the CNS that have usually been studied
independently. This article examines the similarities in the effects of estradiol
and BDNF in the hippocampus, in light of the evidence that estradiol can induce
BDNF expression, and recent data suggesting that structural and
electrophysiological effects of estradiol in the hippocampus might be mediated by
BDNF. The possible role of BDNF as a signaling molecule downstream of estrogen in
the hippocampus has implications for our understanding of several cellular and
behavioral hippocampal functions, including dendritic and synaptic plasticity,
learning and cognitive behavior. Furthermore, disruption of the relationship
between estrogen and BDNF could contribute to neurological and psychiatric
disorders that have been associated with the hippocampus, such as Alzheimer's
disease, depression and epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.12.005 
PMID: 15667930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Feb;28(2):73-8.

Memory retention--the synaptic stability versus plasticity dilemma.

Abraham WC(1), Robins A.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Psychology and Computer Science, University of Otago, Dunedin, 
New Zealand. cabraham@psy.otago.ac.nz

Memory maintenance is widely believed to involve long-term retention of the
synaptic weights that are set within relevant neural circuits during learning.
However, despite recent exciting technical advances, it has not yet proved
possible to confirm experimentally this intuitively appealing hypothesis.
Artificial neural networks offer an alternative methodology as they permit
continuous monitoring of individual connection weights during learning and
retention. In such models, ongoing alterations in connection weights are required
if a network is to retain previously stored material while learning new
information. Thus, the duration of synaptic change does not necessarily define
the persistence of a memory; rather, it is likely that a regulated balance of
synaptic stability and synaptic plasticity is required for optimal memory
retention in real neuronal circuits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.12.003 
PMID: 15667929  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Feb;28(2):67-72.

Hippocampal sequence-encoding driven by a cortical multi-item working memory
buffer.

Jensen O(1), Lisman JE.

Author information: 
(1)FC Donders Centre for Cognitive Neuroimaging, PO Box 9101, NL-6500 HB
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Encoding and recall of memory sequences is an important process. Memory encoding 
is thought to occur by long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus; however, 
it remains unclear how LTP, which has a time window for induction of
approximately 100 ms, could encode the linkage between sequential items that
arrive with a temporal separation >100 ms. Here, we argue that LTP can underlie
the learning of such memory sequences, provided the input to the hippocampus is
from a cortical multi-item working memory buffer in which theta and gamma
oscillations have an important role. In such a buffer, memory items that occurred
seconds apart are represented with a temporal separation of 20-30 ms, thereby
bringing them within the LTP window. The physiological and behavioral evidence
for such a buffer will be reviewed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.12.001 
PMID: 15667928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Feb;28(2):62-5; discussion 65-6.

Genetic control of dopaminergic neuron differentiation.

Simeone A(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Developmental Neurobiology, 4th Floor, New Hunt's House, Guy's 
Campus, King's College London, London Bridge, London SE1 1UL, UK.
antonio.simeone@kcl.ac.uk

The mesencephalic dopaminergic (mesDA) system controls movement and emotional
behaviour, and its degeneration causes Parkinson's disease and other psychiatric 
disorders. Recent findings are leading to better understanding of the genetic
control of generation and functioning of the mesDA system. This advancement could
disclose new perspectives for therapeutic approaches of mesDA-related disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.11.007 
PMID: 15667926  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


961. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Feb;28(2):59-62.

Quantal transmission: not just for neurons.

Overstreet LS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, L474, Oregon Health & Sciences University, 3181 SW Sam
Jackson Park Road, Portland, OR 97239, USA. overstre@ohsu.edu

Glia have moved into the spotlight as participants in synaptic signaling. Recent 
work by Bergles and colleagues extends this active role by showing that
oligodendrocyte precursors cells (OPCs) in the hippocampus receive functional
glutamatergic and GABAergic synapses. Synaptic signaling in these cells could
provide a mechanism for activity-dependent modulation of OPC proliferation and
differentiation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.11.010 
PMID: 15667925  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Feb;28(2):57-9.

Controlling neural stem cell division within the adult subventricular zone: an
APPealing job.

Conti L(1), Cattaneo E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacological Sciences and Center of Excellence on
Neurodegenerative Diseases, University of Milano, Via Balzaretti 9, 20133 Milan, 
Italy. luciano.conti@unimi.it

For years, scientists investigating amyloid precursor protein (APP) have focused 
on its pathogenetic role in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients. Now, a
study by Caille et al. adds new sites of action and new physiological functions
for APP. They show that there are binding sites for secreted N-terminal
nonamyloidogenic APP (sAPP) on epidermal growth factor (EGF)-responsive neural
stem cells in the subventricular zone of the adult brain, where sAPP acts as an
EGF cofactor to stimulate proliferation of these cells. This result opens the
hypothesis that changes in the levels of sAPP could influence activity of the
neurogenic regions of the adult brain in normal and pathological conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.11.005 
PMID: 15667924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jan;28(1):51-6.

Mechanisms of memory stabilization: are consolidation and reconsolidation similar
or distinct processes?

Alberini CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New
York, NY 10029, USA. cristina.alberini@mssm.edu

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jul;28(7):346-7.

Consolidation of new memories depends on a crucial phase of protein synthesis. It
is widely held that, once consolidated, memories are stable and resilient to
disruption. However, established memories become labile when recalled and require
another phase of protein synthesis to be maintained. Therefore, it has been
proposed that when a memory is reactivated it must undergo additional
consolidation (reconsolidation) to persist. To determine whether reconsolidation 
recapitulates consolidation, in the past few years several groups have
investigated whether the same molecules and pathways mediate the formation of a
memory and its maintenance after reactivation. At first glance, the results
appear conflicting: although both processes appear to engage the same molecules
and mechanisms, brain areas involved in consolidation after initial training are 
not required for reconsolidation. In addition, the formation of a memory and its 
maintenance after reactivation seem to have distinctive temporal molecular
requirements. This review concludes with a working model that could explain the
apparent controversy of memory vulnerability after reactivation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.11.001 
PMID: 15626497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jan;28(1):44-50.

Dissecting neural circuitry by combining genetics and pharmacology.

Wulff P(1), Wisden W.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Neurobiology, University of Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer 
Feld 364, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

In systems neuroscience, advances often come from lesioning and reversible
inhibition of brain regions. Dissecting the circuitry of regions involves
conceptually the same approach - stop a class of cell from firing action
potentials, or make the cells fire more, then deduce how these components
influence the performance of the circuit and animal behaviour. To perform such
cell-type-specific and reversible fine-scale analysis of circuitry, and to do so 
on the fast signalling timescale of the brain (milliseconds to seconds), is
challenging in mammals. Ingenious and diverse methods are being developed towards
this goal. These new tools will encourage further synergy between molecular
biologists, systems neuroscientists and electrophysiologists.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.11.004 
PMID: 15626496  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jan;28(1):37-43.

Physiological functions for brain NF-kappaB.

Meffert MK(1), Baltimore D.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, MC204-31 California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA
91125, USA. mkm@jhmi.edu

Members of the nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) family of transcription factors 
are activated within the CNS in pathological settings of apoptosis and
neurological disease. Recent work using several model systems provides
accumulating evidence that these transcription factors also participate in the
regulation of neuronal activity-dependent transcription and behavior under
physiological conditions. This review highlights advances in our understanding of
the mechanisms of Ca(2+)-responsive activation and synaptic signaling to the
nucleus by NF-kappaB transcription factors within the CNS, and the relevance of
this transcription factor family for learning and memory.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.11.002 
PMID: 15626495  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jan;28(1):30-6.

Brainy but not too brainy: starting and stopping neuroblast divisions in
Drosophila.

Maurange C(1), Gould AP.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council, National Institute for Medical Research, The
Ridgeway, Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK.

Drosophila neuroblasts are similar to mammalian neural stem cells in that they
self-renew and have the potential to generate many different types of neurons and
glia. They have already proved useful for uncovering asymmetric division
components and now look set to provide insights into how stem cell divisions are 
initiated and terminated during neural development. In particular, some of the
humoral factors and short-range 'niche' signals that modulate neuroblast activity
during postembryonic development have been identified. In addition, recent
studies have begun to reveal how the total number of cells generated by a single 
neuroblast is regulated by spatial and temporal cues from Hox proteins and a
transcription-factor series linked to cell cycle progression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.10.009 
PMID: 15626494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jan;28(1):20-9.

Structure and function of ribbon synapses.

Sterling P(1), Matthews G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA
19104, USA. peter@retina.anatomy.upenn.edu

Sensory neurons with short conduction distances can use nonregenerative, graded
potentials to modulate transmitter release continuously. This mechanism can
transmit information at much higher rates than spiking. Graded signaling requires
a synapse to sustain high rates of exocytosis for relatively long periods, and
this capacity is the special virtue of ribbon synapses. Vesicles tethered to the 
ribbon provide a pool for sustained release that is typically fivefold greater
than the docked pool available for fast release. The current article, which is
part of the TINS Synaptic Connectivity series, reviews recent evidence for this
fundamental computational strategy and its underlying cell biology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.11.009 
PMID: 15626493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jan;28(1):12-9.

Post-translational protein modification as the substrate for long-lasting memory.

Routtenberg A(1), Rekart JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208, USA.
aryeh@northwestern.edu

Prevailing models of memory identify mRNA translation as necessary for
long-lasting information storage. However, there are enough instances of memory
storage in the virtual absence of protein synthesis to prompt consideration of
alternative models. A comprehensive review of the protein synthesis literature
leads us to conclude that the translational mechanism is exclusively a
permissive, replenishment step. Therefore, we propose that post-translational
modification (PTM) of proteins already at the synapse is the crucial instructive 
mechanism underlying long-lasting memory. A novel feature of this model is that
non-random spontaneous (or endogenous) brain activity operates as a regulated
positive-feedback rehearsal mechanism, updating network configurations by
fine-tuning the PTM state of previously modified proteins. Synapses participating
in memory storage are therefore supple, a feature required for networks to alter 
complexity and update continuously. In analogy with codons for amino acids, a
long-lasting memory is represented by a 'degenerate code' - a set of
pseudo-redundant networks that can ensure its longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.11.006 
PMID: 15626492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jan;28(1):5-11.

The protean actions of neurotrophins and their receptors on the life and death of
neurons.

Kalb R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Joseph Stokes, Jr Research Institute, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, and
Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 3615
Civic Center Boulevard, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. kalb@email.chop.edu

At vanishingly low concentrations, factors of the neurotrophin family (NGF, BDNF,
NT3 and NT4/5) can promote neuronal survival or death. Many investigations
indicate that the survival-promoting signals of neurotrophins are generated by
activation of Trk tyrosine kinase receptors and that their death-promoting
signals are generated by activation of p75 neurotrophin receptors (p75(NTR)).
Despite this, a body of work indicates that p75(NTR) can promote cell survival
and Trk receptors can adversely affect neuron health. The potential mechanisms by
which these receptors could have such diverse and antipodal effects are
considered here.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.11.003 
PMID: 15626491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Trends Neurosci. 2005 Jan;28(1):1-4.

Spike times make sense.

VanRullen R(1), Guyonneau R, Thorpe SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche Cerveau et Cognition, 133 Route de Narbonne, 31062
Toulouse Cedex, France. rufin.vanrullen@cerco.ups-tlse.fr

Many behavioral responses are completed too quickly for the underlying sensory
processes to rely on estimation of neural firing rates over extended time
windows. Theoretically, first-spike times could underlie such rapid responses,
but direct evidence has been lacking. Such evidence has now been uncovered in the
human somatosensory system. We discuss these findings and their potential
generalization to other sensory modalities, and we consider some future
challenges for the neuroscientific community.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.10.010 
PMID: 15626490  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Dec;27(12):744-50.

Discrete synaptic states define a major mechanism of synapse plasticity.

Montgomery JM(1), Madison DV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University
of Auckland, New Zealand.

Synapses can change their strength in response to afferent activity, a property
that might underlie a variety of neural processes such as learning, network
synaptic weighting, synapse formation and pruning. Recent work has shown that
synapses change their strength by jumping between discrete mechanistic states,
rather than by simply moving up and down in a continuum of efficacy. Coincident
with this, studies have provided a framework for understanding the potential
mechanistic underpinnings of synaptic plastic states. Synaptic plasticity states 
not only represent a new and fundamental property of CNS synapses, but also can
provide a context for understanding outstanding issues in synaptic function,
plasticity and development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.10.006 
PMID: 15541515  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Dec;27(12):735-43.

Astrocytic control of glutamatergic activity: astrocytes as stars of the show.

Hertz L(1), Zielke HR.

Author information: 
(1)College of Basic Medical Sciences, China Medical University, Shenyang, P.R.
China. lhertz@northcom.net

It is a major recent finding that astrocytes can influence synaptic activity by
release of glutamate, but many other glutamate-mediated activities are also
controlled by astrocytes. Even the most obvious neuronal function of glutamate - 
its release as a transmitter - is regulated by astrocytes; these cells are needed
for formation of precursors for glutamate synthesis, for reuptake of released
transmitter, and for disposal of excess glutamate. Without astrocytic
involvement, normal function of glutamatergic neurons is not possible, as
exemplified by almost instantaneous abrogation of normal vision and learning upon
inhibition of astrocyte-specific metabolic pathways. In addition, astrocytes are 
essential for production of the neuroprotectant glutathione, yet they can also
contribute to neuronal death during ischemia by maintaining glutamine synthesis, 
enabling neuronal formation of neurotoxic glutamate.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.10.008 
PMID: 15541514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Dec;27(12):727-34.

Divide et Impera--the midbrain-hindbrain boundary and its organizer.

Raible F(1), Brand M.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics, and Department of
Genetics, University of Technology, Dresden, Pfotenhauerstrasse 108, D-01309
Dresden, Germany. .

The midbrain-hindbrain organizer (MHO) is a signalling centre that orchestrates
development of the mesencephalic and anterior metencephalic primordia. In recent 
years, details have been revealed about the molecular nature of these signals,
their transmission and reception, and the regulatory processes associated with
MHO function. This article reviews recent progress in understanding the genetic
and molecular components of the MHO, and how they synergize to control brain
development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.10.003 
PMID: 15541513  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Dec;27(12):720-6.

Neurobiology of dyslexia: a reinterpretation of the data.

Ramus F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Sciences Cognitives et Psycholinguistique (EHESS/CNRS/ENS), 46 
rue d'Ulm, 75230 Paris Cedex 5, France. franck.ramus@ens.fr

Theories of developmental dyslexia differ on how to best interpret the great
variety of symptoms (linguistic, sensory and motor) observed in dyslexic
individuals. One approach views dyslexia as a specific phonological deficit,
which sometimes co-occurs with a more general sensorimotor syndrome. This article
on the neurobiology of dyslexia shows that neurobiological data are indeed
consistent with this view, explaining both how a specific phonological deficit
might arise, and why a sensorimotor syndrome should be significantly associated
with it. This new conceptualisation of the aetiology of dyslexia could generalize
to other neurodevelopmental disorders, and might further explain heterogeneity
within each disorder and comorbidity between disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.10.004 
PMID: 15541512  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Dec;27(12):712-9.

The Bayesian brain: the role of uncertainty in neural coding and computation.

Knill DC(1), Pouget A.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Visual Science and the Department of Brain and Cognitive Science,
University of Rochester, NY 14627, USA. knill@cvs.rochester.edu

To use sensory information efficiently to make judgments and guide action in the 
world, the brain must represent and use information about uncertainty in its
computations for perception and action. Bayesian methods have proven successful
in building computational theories for perception and sensorimotor control, and
psychophysics is providing a growing body of evidence that human perceptual
computations are "Bayes' optimal". This leads to the "Bayesian coding
hypothesis": that the brain represents sensory information probabilistically, in 
the form of probability distributions. Several computational schemes have
recently been proposed for how this might be achieved in populations of neurons. 
Neurophysiological data on the hypothesis, however, is almost non-existent. A
major challenge for neuroscientists is to test these ideas experimentally, and so
determine whether and how neurons code information about sensory uncertainty.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.10.007 
PMID: 15541511  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Dec;27(12):707-11.

Cognitive consonance: complex brain functions in the fruit fly and its relatives.

Greenspan RJ(1), van Swinderen B.

Author information: 
(1)The Neurosciences Institute, 10640 John Jay Hopkins Drive, San Diego, CA
92121, USA. greenspan@nsi.edu

The fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, has become a model for the study of a
growing number of human characteristics because of the power of its genetics.
Higher cognitive functions, however, might be assumed to be out of reach for the 
little fly. But the cumulative history of cognitive studies in insects and some
of their arachnid relatives, as well as specific probing of the capabilities of
fruit flies, suggests that even in this ethereal realm these creatures have much 
to contribute. What are the degrees of sophistication in cognitive behavior
displayed by these organisms, how have they been demonstrated, and what is their 
potential for understanding how our own brains work?

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.10.002 
PMID: 15541510  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Dec;27(12):702-6.

Dopamine: the salient issue.

Ungless MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Anatomical Neuropharmacology Unit, Department of Pharmacology and
Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PS,
UK. mark.ungless@zoo.ox.ac.uk

There is general agreement that midbrain dopamine neurons play key roles in
reward processing. What is more controversial is the role they play in processing
salient stimuli that are not rewarding. This controversy has arisen for three
main reasons. First, salient sensory stimuli such as tones and lights, which are 
assumed not to be rewarding, increase dopamine neuron activity. Second, aversive 
stimuli increase firing in a minority of putative dopamine neurons. Third,
dopamine release is increased following aversive stimuli. Consequently, it has
been suggested that these midbrain dopamine neurons are activated by all salient 
stimuli, rather than specifically by rewards. However, reconsideration of these
issues, in light of new findings, suggests this controversy can be resolved in
favour of reward theories.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.10.001 
PMID: 15541509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Dec;27(12):699-700.

The expanding role of PSD-95: a new link to addiction.

Roche KW(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes
of Health, Building 35, Room 2C903, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. rochek@ninds.nih.gov

One feature of addiction is the enhanced locomotor response known as behavioral
sensitization that occurs with prolonged exposure to psychostimulants. In a
recent study, Yao et al. have analyzed four distinct animal models that share
this common phenotype. Evaluation of gene expression in the striatum reveals that
postsynaptic density (PSD)-95, a synaptic scaffolding protein, is downregulated
in each model, suggesting an essential role for this protein in addiction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.09.002 
PMID: 15541508  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Nov;27(11):691-7.

Genetic mouse models of Huntington's and Parkinson's diseases: illuminating but
imperfect.

Levine MS(1), Cepeda C, Hickey MA, Fleming SM, Chesselet MF.

Author information: 
(1)Mental Retardation Research Center, The David Geffen School of Medicine at
UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. mlevine@mednet.ucla.edu

Genetic mouse models based on identification of genes that cause Huntington's and
Parkinson's diseases have revolutionized understanding of the mechanistic
pathophysiological progression of these disorders. These models allow the
earliest manifestations of the diseases to be identified, and they display
behavioral, neuropathological and electrophysiological deficits that can be
followed over time in mechanistic and drug studies. An intriguing feature is that
they do not reproduce the relatively selective and massive cell loss
characterizing the human diseases. There is more information on Huntington's
disease models because the disorder involves a single gene that was identified
over ten years ago; genetic mutations causing Parkinson's disease are rare and
were discovered more recently, and models of the disease have been generated only
within the past few years.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.08.008 
PMID: 15474170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Nov;27(11):683-90.

Genes, dopamine and cortical signal-to-noise ratio in schizophrenia.

Winterer G(1), Weinberger DR.

Author information: 
(1)Genes, Cognition and Psychosis Program, National Institute of Mental Health,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

A large body of phenomenological evidence implicates abnormal connectivity of
brain macrocircuitry and microcircuitry in schizophrenia. Recent discoveries of
susceptibility genes for schizophrenia have zeroed in on the synaptic signaling
machinery of cortical microcircuits as fundamental to disease causation and have 
militated for further revision of the role of dopamine in this illness. Dopamine,
long implicated in psychosis and in antipsychotic drug effects, is crucial in
optimizing signal-to-noise ratio of local cortical microcircuits. This action of 
dopamine is achieved principally by D1- and D2-receptor-mediated effects on
pyramidal and local circuit neurons, which mediate neuronal excitability and
recurrent inhibition and thus contribute to the stability of cortical
representations of external and internal stimuli. In schizophrenia, an abnormal
cortical dopamine D1/D2 activation ratio - in concert with, and in part related
to, altered GABA and glutamate transmission - appears to interfere crucially with
this process.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.08.002 
PMID: 15474169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Nov;27(11):676-82.

The neuroscience of tinnitus.

Eggermont JJ(1), Roberts LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, and Department of Psychology,
University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2N 1N4. eggermon@ucalgary.ca

Tinnitus is an auditory phantom sensation (ringing of the ears) experienced when 
no external sound is present. Most but not all cases are associated with hearing 
loss induced by noise exposure or aging. Neuroscience research has begun to
reveal how tinnitus is generated by the brain when hearing loss occurs, and to
suggest new avenues for management and prevention of tinnitus following hearing
injuries. Downregulation of intracortical inhibition induced by damage to the
cochlea or to auditory projection pathways highlights neural processes that
underlie the sensation of phantom sound.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.08.010 
PMID: 15474168  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Nov;27(11):670-5.

Interneurons and triadic circuitry of the thalamus.

Sherman SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Pharmacology and Physiology, The University of
Chicago, Chicago IL 60637, USA. msherman@bsd.uchicago.edu

The thalamus is strategically placed to control the flow of information to cortex
and thus conscious perception. A key player in this control is a local GABAergic 
interneuron that inhibits relay cells. This interneuron is especially interesting
because, in addition to a conventional axonal output, most of its output is via
distal dendrites. The latter seem to be electrotonically and thus functionally
isolated from the soma and axon, and they enter into complex synaptic
arrangements. It is proposed that, because of special synaptic properties of its 
dendritic outputs, this local GABAergic interneuron of the thalamus provides gain
control for the relay cell and thereby keeps relay of information to cortex
within a fairly linear regime.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.08.003 
PMID: 15474167  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Nov;27(11):662-9.

GABAergic microcircuits in the neostriatum.

Tepper JM(1), Koós T, Wilson CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers, The State
University of New Jersey, Newark, NJ 07102, USA. tepper@axon.rutgers.edu

The vast majority of neostriatal neurons and intrinsic intrastriatal synapses are
GABAergic, the latter arising from axon collaterals of spiny projection neurons
and from GABAergic interneurons. An important feature of the functional
organization of the neostriatum has long been assumed to be the existence of a
widespread lateral inhibitory network mediated by the axon collaterals of spiny
projection neurons. However, these collateral connections have recently been
demonstrated electrophysiologically to be relatively weak--in contrast to
feedforward interneuronal inhibition, which exerts strong effects on spike timing
in spiny neurons. These new data are incompatible with current "winner-take-all" 
models of lateral inhibitory function in the neostriatum, and they force a
modification of established concepts of the functional roles of feedback
inhibition in this nucleus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.08.007 
PMID: 15474166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Nov;27(11):655-61.

Neurons and glia: team players in axon guidance.

Chotard C(1), Salecker I.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute for Medical Research, Division of Molecular Neurobiology,
The Ridgeway, London NW7 1AA, UK.

In the developing nervous system, growth cones follow specific trajectories to
reach their target area and ultimately connect with their correct postsynaptic
partners. This review focuses on studies in both Drosophila and vertebrates to
highlight that mutual interactions between neurons and glia are essential in
forming specific neuronal connections. Glia signal to neurons to direct
pathfinding and targeting of axons, as well as to stabilize and refine axonal
branches within the target area. Equally, neurons provide crucial information to 
glia, supporting their migration and correct positioning.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.09.001 
PMID: 15474165  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Nov;27(11):649-54.

A paradox in the evolution of primate vocal learning.

Egnor SE(1), Hauser MD.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard University, William James Hall, 33 Kirkland Street, Cambridge, MA
02138, USA. egnor@fas.harvard.edu

The importance of auditory feedback in the development of spoken language in
humans is striking. Paradoxically, although auditory-feedback-dependent vocal
plasticity has been shown in a variety of taxonomic groups, there is little
evidence that our nearest relatives--non-human primates--require auditory
feedback for the development of species-typical vocal signals. Because of the
apparent lack of developmental plasticity in the vocal production system,
neuroscientists have largely ignored the neural mechanisms of non-human primate
vocal production and perception. Recently, the absence of evidence for vocal
plasticity from developmental studies has been contrasted with evidence for vocal
plasticity in adults. We argue that this new evidence makes non-human primate
vocal behavior an attractive model system for neurobiological analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.08.009 
PMID: 15474164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Nov;27(11):645-8.

Homer-PIKE complex: a novel link between mGluRI and PI 3-kinase.

Guhan N(1), Lu B.

Author information: 
(1)Section on Neural Development and Plasticity, NICHD/NIH, Bethesda, MD
20892-4480, USA.

Metabotropic glutamate (mGlu) receptors, a family of G-protein-coupled receptors,
are thought to signal through the phospholipase and inositol
(1,4,5)-trisphosphate receptor system, or through the adenylyl cyclase and
protein kinase C system. Rong et al. have recently identified a new
phosphoinositide (PI) 3-kinase enhancer (PIKE-L) that links group I mGlu
receptors (mGluRI) to PI 3-kinase through Homer proteins, adaptors that bind
mGluRI. mGluRI agonists enhanced mGluRI-Homer-PIKE-L complex formation, leading
to activation of PI 3-kinase and inhibition of staurosporine-induced neuronal
apoptosis. These results reveal a novel anti-apoptotic signaling mechanism that
involves formation of an mGluRI signaling complex.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.08.011 
PMID: 15474163  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):637-43.

The cutaneous contribution to adaptive precision grip.

Witney AG(1), Wing A, Thonnard JL, Smith AM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 
3EJ, UK.

Only after injury, or perhaps prolonged exposure to cold that is sufficient to
numb the fingers, do we suddenly appreciate the complex neural mechanisms that
underlie our effortless dexterity in manipulating objects. The nervous system is 
capable of adapting grip forces to a wide range of object shapes, weights and
frictional properties, to provide optimal and secure handling in a variety of
potentially perturbing environments. The dynamic interplay between sensory
information and motor commands provides the basis for this flexibility, and
recent studies supply somewhat unexpected evidence of the essential role played
by cutaneous feedback in maintaining and acquiring predictive grip force control.
These examples also offer new insights into the adaptive control of other
voluntary movements.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.08.006 
PMID: 15374677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):633-6.

Centenarians who avoid dementia.

Perls T(1).

Author information: 
(1)New England Centenarian Study, Boston Medical Center, 88 East Newton Street,
Boston, MA 02118, USA. thperls@bu.edu <thperls@bu.edu>

Some researchers and many in the lay public believe the ageist myth that the
older you get the sicker you get. If this were true, it would follow that most if
not all centenarians should have Alzheimer's disease. Numerous centenarian
studies disprove this assumption given that a small percentage ( approximately
15-25%) of centenarians are functionally cognitively intact. Among those who are 
not cognitively intact at 100, approximately 90% delayed the onset of clinically 
evident impairment at least until an average age of 92 years. Neuropsychological 
and neuropathological correlations thus far suggest that there are centenarians
who demonstrate no evidence of neurodegenerative disease. There also appear to be
centenarians who, despite the substantial presence of neuropathological markers
of Alzheimer's disease, do not meet clinical criteria for having dementia, thus
suggesting the existence of cognitive reserve. Centenarians are therefore of
scientific interest as a human model of relative resistance to dementia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.012 
PMID: 15374676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):627-32.

Caliban's heritance and the genetics of neuronal aging.

Teter B(1), Finch CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California Los Angeles, 16111 Plummer
Street, Sepulveda, CA 91343, USA.

Although current research on brain aging is dominated by Alzheimer's disease
(AD), many other brain changes arise during middle age in humans and in rodent
models that are independent of AD-like neurodegeneration. Differences and
continuities between normal and pathological aspects of neuronal aging reveal the
relative contributions and interactions of genetic and environmental factors.
Apolipoprotein E alleles might be prototypes for genetic polymorphisms associated
with functional changes that arise during middle age. Mice are valuable models
for these aspects of aging because most genotypes show little neurodegeneration, 
and none accumulate beta-amyloid unless human transgenes are introduced. As
further human genes are found to modify normal and pathological neuronal aging,
this zoo of aging-animal variants will facilitate analysis both of pathways of
age-related neuronal dysfunction and of environmental influences on these
pathways.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.08.005 
PMID: 15374675  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):621-6.

Cytokines and the aging brain - what we don't know might help us.

Bodles AM(1), Barger SW.

Author information: 
(1)Donald W. Reynolds Department of Geriatrics, University of Arkansas for
Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR 72205, USA.

Cognitive aspects of aging represent a grave challenge for our societal
circumstances as members of the baby-boom generation spiral toward a collective
'senior moment'. In addition, age-related changes in the CNS can contribute to
motor deficits and other somatic aberrations. Inflammation and its regulation by 
cytokines have been connected to many aspects of aging, and mechanisms addressed 
here provide a rationale for this. Nevertheless, a role for cytokines in normal
aging of the human brain has not been confirmed, and it seems to be possible to
ameliorate both cognitive decline and cytokine elevation via lifestyle choices.
So ignorance of the brain should not prohibit development of successful
strategies for delaying or avoiding neurological deficits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.011 
PMID: 15374674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):614-20.

Ca2+ regulation and gene expression in normal brain aging.

Toescu EC(1), Verkhratsky A, Landfield PW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Division of Medical Sciences, The University of
Birmingham, Edgbaston B15 2TT, UK. e.c.toescu@bham.ac.uk <e.c.toescu@bham.ac.uk>

Understanding the cellular mechanisms that characterize the functional changes of
the aged brain is an ongoing and formidable challenge for the neuroscience
community. Evidence now links changes in Ca(2+) influx and homeostasis with
perturbations induced by the aging process in the function of the main
intracellular organelles involved in Ca(2+) regulation: the endoplasmic reticulum
and mitochondria. New perspectives are also offered by recent gene microarray
studies, illustrating the multifactorial nature of the aging process.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.010 
PMID: 15374673  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):607-13.

The aging brain: morphomolecular senescence of cortical circuits.

Hof PR(1), Morrison JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY
10029, USA. patrick.hof@mssm.edu <patrick.hof@mssm.edu>

The human brain is uniquely powerful with respect to cognitive abilities, yet the
hippocampal and neocortical circuits that mediate such complex functions are
highly vulnerable to aging. Their selective vulnerability is profoundly
manifested in Alzheimer's disease (AD), where degeneration of select neurons
leads to a near complete loss of cognitive abilities. Most of us will avoid AD as
we age. However, many will experience age-associated cognitive impairment - a
decline in cognitive status presenting as deficits in memory and key capacities
for strategic use of acquired information. Animal studies suggest that both AD
and age-associated cognitive impairment reflect vulnerability of the same
circuits. However, neuron death predominates in the former, whereas the latter is
probably mediated by synaptic alterations in otherwise intact circuits.
Fortunately, such age-related synaptic alterations could be reversible, as
suggested by recent studies of hormone replacement.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.013 
PMID: 15374672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):601-6.

Modeling mitochondrial function in aging neurons.

Melov S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Buck Institute for Age Research, 8001 Redwood Boulevard, Novato, CA 94945,
USA. smelov@buckinstitute.org <smelov@buckinstitute.org>

Mitochondria and aging are fast becoming two of the most paired terms in biology.
As a crucial nexus for the cell, mitochondria are involved in numerous essential 
aspects of cell function, from energy production via the respiratory chain to
steroid biosynthesis, heme assembly, pyrimidine biosynthesis, the tricarboxylic
acid cycle, and apoptosis. Mitochondria are also the main producers of reactive
oxygen species within the cell. Theories about aging have revolved around
mitochondria for decades, but it is only in the past few years that animal models
have started to give significant insights into mitochondria-mediated
pathophysiology that might be intimately associated with aging. This review will 
highlight several new animal models of mitochondrial dysfunction in the context
of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.08.004 
PMID: 15374671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):595-600.

Free radicals and aging.

Barja G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Physiology-II, Faculty of Biology, Complutense
University, Madrid 28040, Spain. gbarja@bio.ucm.es <gbarja@bio.ucm.es>

Aging is characterized by decrements in maximum function and accumulation of
mitochondrial DNA mutations, which are best observed in organs such as the brain 
that contain post-mitotic cells. Oxygen radicals are increasingly considered
responsible for part of these aging changes. Comparative studies of animals with 
different aging rates have shown that the rate of mitochondrial oxygen radical
generation is directly related to the steady-state level of oxidative damage to
mitochondrial DNA and is inversely correlated with maximum longevity in higher
vertebrates. The degree of unsaturation of tissue fatty acids also correlates
inversely with maximum longevity. These are the two known traits connecting
oxidative stress with aging. Furthermore, caloric restriction, which decreases
the rate of aging, proportionately decreases mitochondrial oxygen radical
generation, especially at complex I. These findings are reviewed, highlighting
the results obtained in the brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.005 
PMID: 15374670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):589-94.

BDNF and 5-HT: a dynamic duo in age-related neuronal plasticity and
neurodegenerative disorders.

Mattson MP(1), Maudsley S, Martin B.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging Intramural Research
Program, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. mattsonm@grc.nia.nih.gov
<mattsonm@grc.nia.nih.gov>

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine,
5-HT) are known to regulate synaptic plasticity, neurogenesis and neuronal
survival in the adult brain. These two signals co-regulate one another such that 
5-HT stimulates the expression of BDNF, and BDNF enhances the growth and survival
of 5-HT neurons. Impaired 5-HT and BDNF signaling is central to depression and
anxiety disorders, but could also play important roles in the pathogenesis of
several age-related disorders, including insulin resistance syndrome, Alzheimer's
disease and Huntington's disease. Enhancement of BDNF signaling may be a key
mechanism whereby cognitive stimulation, exercise, dietary restriction and
antidepressant drugs preserve brain function during aging. Behavioral and
pharmacological manipulations that enhance 5-HT and BDNF signaling could help
promote healthy brain aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.08.001 
PMID: 15374669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):585-8.

Pedunculopontine nucleus and basal ganglia: distant relatives or part of the same
family?

Mena-Segovia J(1), Bolam JP, Magill PJ.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Anatomical Neuropharmacology Unit, University of Oxford, Mansfield Road,
Oxford OX1 3TH, UK. juan.mena-segovia@pharm.ox.ac.uk
<juan.mena-segovia@pharm.ox.ac.uk>

The basal ganglia are more highly interconnected with the pedunculopontine
tegmental nucleus (PPN) than with any other brain region. Regulation and relay of
basal ganglia activity are two key functions of the PPN. The PPN provides an
interface for the basal ganglia to influence sleep and waking, and the two
structures are similarly implicated in learning, reward and other cognitive
functions. Perturbations of basal ganglia activity have consequences for the PPN 
and vice versa, exemplified by their interdependencies in motor function and
Parkinson's disease. Thus, close anatomical and physiological links between the
PPN and basal ganglia make it increasingly difficult to consider the two as
separate functional entities.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.009 
PMID: 15374668  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):582-4.

Setting the tone: superficial dorsal horn projection neurons regulate pain
sensitivity.

Mantyh PW(1), Hunt SP.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosystems Center, Cancer Center and Department of Preventive Sciences,
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. manty001@tc.umn.edu
<manty001@tc.umn.edu>

The neurokinin-1 receptor is expressed by lamina I projection neurons of the
spinal cord that are crucial for regulating pain behavior. These neurons are
nocispecific, support long-term potentiation and appear to downregulate the
K(+)-Cl(-) exporter channel KCC2 following peripheral nerve damage, leading to
increased excitability. These lamina I neurons project to the brainstem and
thalamus and modulate descending inhibitory and excitatory pathways to the dorsal
horn that regulate nociceptive traffic.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.007 
PMID: 15374667  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):579-82.

Ethanol targets: a BK channel cocktail in C. elegans.

Crowder CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S.
Euclid Ave, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. crowderm@morpheus.wustl.edu
<crowderm@morpheus.wustl.edu>

A genetic screen for resistance to ethanol intoxication in Caenorhabditis elegans
isolated mutants of the gene slo-1. slo-1 encodes the pore-forming subunit of a
large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel previously shown to limit
excitatory neurotransmitter release in C. elegans. Electrophysiological data
recorded in vivo are consistent with a model in which ethanol potentiation of
SLO-1 produces intoxication in C. elegans by reducing excitatory neurotransmitter
release.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.006 
PMID: 15374666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Oct;27(10):577-8.

Aging in the mind.

Verkhratsky A, Mattson MP, Toescu EC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.008 
PMID: 15374665  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):569-75.

Diversity of inhibitory neurotransmission through GABA(A) receptors.

Mody I(1), Pearce RA.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurology and Physiology, The David Geffen School of Medicine
at UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. mody@ucla.edu

In the brain, highly connected and heterogeneous GABAergic cells are crucial in
controling the activity of neuronal networks. They accomplish this task by
communicating through remarkably diverse sets of inhibitory processes, the
complexity of which is reflected by the variety of interneuron classification
schemes proposed in recent years. It is now becoming clear that the subcellular
localization and intrinsic properties of heteropentameric GABA(A) receptors
themselves also constitute major sources of diversity in GABA-mediated signaling.
This review summarizes some of the factors underlying this diversity, including
GABA(A) receptor subunit composition, localization, activation, number and
phosphorylation states, variance of GABA concentration in the synaptic cleft, and
some of the presynaptic factors regulating GABA release.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.002 
PMID: 15331240  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1001. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):561-8.

Smoking, nicotine and Parkinson's disease.

Quik M(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Parkinson's Institute, 1170 Morse Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA 94089, USA.
mquik@thepi.org

Epidemiological studies show that smoking is associated with a lower incidence of
Parkinson's disease (PD). This finding is important because it could provide
clues about therapeutic strategies for protection against this debilitating
movement disorder. Smoke contains numerous chemicals that could be responsible
for the apparent protective effect. Here, a role for nicotine is considered,
because this chemical stimulates brain dopaminergic systems and provides some
symptomatic benefit in PD. Nicotine also has a neuroprotective action. Putative
factors and signaling pathways involved in the actions of nicotine are discussed.
An understanding of the molecular basis for the reduced occurrence of PD in
tobacco users is crucial for the development of intervention strategies to reduce
or halt disease progression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.008 
PMID: 15331239  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1002. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):555-60.

Learning insights transmitted by glutamate.

Antzoulatos EG(1), Byrne JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, W.M. Keck Center for the Neurobiology 
of Learning and Memory, The University of Texas Medical School at Houston, 6431
Fannin, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Plasticity of the Aplysia sensorimotor synapse plays a crucial role in learning
and memory of withdrawal reflexes. During the past ten years, a growing body of
evidence has indicated that the sensorimotor synapse is glutamatergic. This new
information has guided several studies that implicate AMPA and NMDA receptors in 
synaptic plasticity. However, further work is necessary to delineate the exact
properties of the postsynaptic receptors, and their role in transmission and
plasticity. Despite the still incomplete picture of the intrinsic properties of
the sensorimotor synapse, identifying the endogenous transmitter has provided a
foundation for new avenues of research, the results of which will further improve
our understanding of the neurobiology of learning and memory.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.009 
PMID: 15331238  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1003. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):548-54.

Kinetic regulation of vesicle endocytosis at synapses.

Wu LG(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, 36 Convent Drive,
Building 36, Room 1C12, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. wul@ninds.nih.gov

Studies from a variety of synapses indicate that the time course of endocytosis
ranges from less than a second to hundreds of seconds. This raises questions
about how the time course of endocytosis is regulated and why different rates of 
endocytosis are needed. Recent progress sheds light on these issues. Neuronal
firing frequency and duration determine the time course of endocytosis. The
dynamic nature of this time course could be a result of multiple endocytic
pathways and/or of regulation by a variety of modulators. Because endocytosis is 
crucial for maintaining transmitter release during repetitive stimulation,
regulation of endocytosis could thus provide a mechanism by which synaptic
plasticity is achieved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.001 
PMID: 15331237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1004. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):540-7.

Genetic analysis of synaptic target recognition and assembly.

Ackley BD(1), Jin Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, University of California, Santa Cruz, CA 95064, USA.

Formation of synapses by neurons onto specific targets is essential to the
function of a nervous system. The isolation and analysis of Caenorhabditis
elegans and Drosophila mutants with synaptogenesis defects has provided insight
into the functions of evolutionarily conserved molecules at single-synapse
resolution. Importantly, such studies have uncovered novel molecules and
signaling mechanisms. Here, recent progress on synaptic target recognition and
synaptic assembly are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.003 
PMID: 15331236  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1005. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):533-9.

Intermediate targets in formation of topographic projections: inputs from the
thalamocortical system.

Garel S(1), Rubenstein JL.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U368, Ecole Normale Supérieure- 46 rue d'Ulm 75230 Paris cedex 05,
France.

Topography of axonal projections has been generally thought to arise from
positional information located within the projecting and targeted structures,
independent of events along the path or within the axonal bundle. Recent evidence
suggests that in the projection from the dorsal thalamus to the neocortex,
initial rostrocaudal targeting of axons is regulated at the level of an
intermediate target, the subcortical telencephalon. In this system, thalamic
axons are spatially positioned within the subcortical telencephalon, partly via
interactions between EphAs and ephrin-As, and this positioning apparently
determines the rostrocaudal level of the neocortex that the axons will initially 
target.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.014 
PMID: 15331235  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1006. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):528-32.

Wnt signaling in axon guidance.

Zou Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Pharmacology and Physiology, The University of
Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. yzou@bsd.uchicago.edu

Recent studies have identified Wnt proteins as conserved axon guidance molecules 
in vertebrates and invertebrates. Wnt proteins are a large family of diffusible
factors that play several important roles, both in embryonic development and in
adult function. The signaling mechanisms of Wnt proteins are complex and, because
Wnts are newly discovered as axon guidance cues, little is known about how Wnt
signaling controls the direction of growth cone navigation - a process that is
crucial in development of the nervous system. This review summarizes recent work 
on the role of Wnts in axon guidance and discusses the possible signaling
mechanisms involved in growth cone guidance. Understanding how Wnts regulate axon
wiring will not only help us to understand how the nervous system is connected
but also provide possible tools for axon regeneration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.015 
PMID: 15331234  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1007. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):520-7.

The thalamostriatal system: a highly specific network of the basal ganglia
circuitry.

Smith Y(1), Raju DV, Pare JF, Sidibe M.

Author information: 
(1)Yerkes National Primate Research Center and Department of Neurology, Emory
University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. yolands@rmy.emory.edu

Although the existence of thalamostriatal projections has long been known, the
role(s) of this system in the basal ganglia circuitry remains poorly
characterized. The intralaminar and ventral motor nuclei are the main sources of 
thalamic inputs to the striatum. This review emphasizes the high degree of
anatomical and functional specificity of basal ganglia-thalamostriatal
projections and discusses various aspects of the synaptic connectivity and
neurochemical features that differentiate this glutamate system from the
corticostriatal network. It also discusses the importance of thalamostriatal
projections from the caudal intralaminar nuclei in the process of attentional
orientation. A major task of future studies is to characterize the role(s) of
corticostriatal and thalamostriatal pathways in regulating basal ganglia activity
in normal and pathological conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.07.004 
PMID: 15331233  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1008. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):516-9.

Schizophrenia genetics: dysbindin under the microscope.

Benson MA(1), Sillitoe RV, Blake DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Mansfield Road, Oxford OX1
3QT, UK.

It is well established that genetic factors strongly contribute to the
susceptibility of an individual to schizophrenia. Straub, Kendler and colleagues 
have published the first of several articles demonstrating a genetic association 
between schizophrenia and the gene encoding the dystrobrevin-binding protein
dysbindin. Although no mutations in the dysbindin gene have been found, the
recent identification of a specific risk haplotype in independent samples
provides further evidence that dysbindin is a possible schizophrenia
susceptibility gene.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.004 
PMID: 15331232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1009. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):513-6.

Real-time imaging reveals spatiotemporal dynamics of cellular circadian clocks.

Schwartz WJ(1), Meijer JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 55 Lake
Avenue North, Worcester, MA 01655, USA. william.schwartz@umassmed.edu

Circadian clocks have been localized to discrete sites within the nervous systems
of several organisms, and in mammals to the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in the 
anterior hypothalamus. The clock in the SCN is composed of multiple autonomous
single-cell oscillators, and new studies now allow an unprecedented look at their
oscillatory activities over repeated cycles in tissue slices in vitro. Initial
data reinforce the importance of intercellular membrane events for constructing a
functional and reliable tissue pacemaker.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.016 
PMID: 15331231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1010. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):511-3.

Four-dimensional gene expression control: memories on the fly.

Leung B(1), Waddell S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester MA 01605, USA.

To understand the role of a gene in adult behavior, it is necessary to control
its expression in four dimensions: space and time. Two recent papers describe
implementation of different but related technologies that now provide this
missing element in fly behavioral research.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.013 
PMID: 15331230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1011. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):504-10.

Plasticity of interneuronal species diversity and parameter variance in
neurological diseases.

Santhakumar V(1), Soltesz I.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, and Center for the Neurobiology of
Learning and Memory, University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-1280, USA.

Interneuronal diversity reflects the division of labor between numerous highly
specialized interneuronal species, each performing a set of specific functions in
neuronal networks. The rich diversity of interneurons found in the normal healthy
brain is often significantly altered in neurological and psychiatric diseases. In
genetic and developmental disorders, the diversity of interneuronal networks is
compromised because of disturbances in the generation, specification or migration
of specific interneuronal subtypes. Following insults related to trauma and
seizures, the relative abundance of interneuronal subtypes might change, and
entire interneuronal species can be lost from the network. In addition to the
complete or partial loss of interneuronal subgroups, heterogeneity can also be
altered in more subtle ways, as a result of changes in cell-to-cell variance of a
particular parameter within specific interneuronal populations. Computational and
experimental studies show that alterations in cellular and synaptic GABAergic
heterogeneity can significantly modulate both firing rates and network coherence,
indicating that plasticity of interneuronal diversity is likely to be an
important mechanistic component of malfunctioning cortical networks in many
pathological states.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.002 
PMID: 15271499  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1012. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):496-503.

Viewing and doing: similar cortical mechanisms for perceptual and motor learning.

Paz R(1), Wise SP, Vaadia E.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Systems Neuroscience, National Institute of Mental Health,
Bethesda, MD 20892-4401, USA. ronyp@hbf.huij.ac.il

Historically, different groups of researchers have investigated the mechanisms of
perceptual learning and motor learning. For sensory cortex, neurophysiological
and psychophysical findings have linked changes in perception with altered
neuronal tuning properties. However, less information has been forthcoming from
motor cortex. This review compares recent findings on perceptual and motor
learning, and suggests that similar mechanisms govern both. These mechanisms
involve changes in both the center of neuronal tuning functions and their width
or slope. The former reflects the values of the sensory or motor parameters that 
a neuron encodes, and the latter adjusts the encoding sensitivity. These
similarities suggest that specific unifying principles for neural coding and
computation exist across sensory and motor domains.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.013 
PMID: 15271498  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1013. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):489-95.

Energetic basis of brain activity: implications for neuroimaging.

Shulman RG(1), Rothman DL, Behar KL, Hyder F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Magnetic Resonance Research Center, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, USA. robert.shulan@yale.edu

The complex activities of the brain need not distract us from the certainty that 
it uses energy and performs work very efficiently. The human brain, which claims 
approximately 2% of our body mass, is responsible for approximately 20% of our
body oxygen consumption. In vivo magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) follows
the metabolic pathways of energy production (as glucose oxidation) and work (as
monitored by the cycling of glutamate and GABA neurotransmitters). In the resting
awake state, approximately 80% of energy used by the brain supports events
associated with neuronal firing and cycling of GABA and glutamate
neurotransmitters. Small differences in neuronal activity between stimulation and
control conditions can be measured and localized using functional magnetic
resonance imaging (fMRI). MRS and fMRI experiments show that the majority of
cerebral activity, which is often disregarded in imaging experiments, is ongoing 
even when the brain appears to be doing nothing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.005 
PMID: 15271497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1014. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):482-8.

Control of neuronal phenotype: what targets tell the cell bodies.

Hippenmeyer S(1), Kramer I, Arber S.

Author information: 
(1)Biozentrum, Department of Cell Biology, University of Basel,
Klingelbergstrasse 70, 4056 Basel, Switzerland, and Friedrich Miescher Institute,
Maulbeerstrasse 66, 4058 Basel, Switzerland.

Assembly of neuronal circuits is controlled by the sequential acquisition of
neuronal subpopulation-specific identities at progressive developmental steps.
Whereas neuronal features involved in initial phases of differentiation are
already established at cell-cycle exit, recent findings, based mainly on work in 
the peripheral nervous system, suggest that the timely integration of signals
encountered en route to targets and from the target region itself is essential to
control late steps in connectivity. As neurons project towards their targets they
require target-derived signals to establish mature axonal projections and acquire
neuronal traits such as the expression of distinct combinations of
neurotransmitters. Recent evidence presented in this review shows that this
principle, of a signaling interplay between target-derived signals and neuronal
cell bodies, is often mediated through transcriptional events and is
evolutionarily conserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.012 
PMID: 15271496  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1015. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):475-81.

Correlating function and gene expression of individual basal ganglia neurons.

Liss B(1), Roeper J.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology, Institute for Physiology, Philipps-University Marburg,
Deutschhausstrasse 2, 35033 Marburg, Germany.

Functional studies at the level of individual neurons have greatly contributed to
our current understanding of basal ganglia function and dysfunction. However,
identification of the expressed genes responsible for these distinct neuronal
phenotypes is less advanced. Qualitative and quantitative single-cell
gene-expression profiling, combined with electrophysiological analysis, allows
phenotype-genotype correlations to be made for individual neurons. In this
review, progress on gene-expression profiling of individual, functionally
characterized basal ganglia neurons is discussed, focusing on ion channels and
receptors. In addition, methodological issues are discussed and emerging novel
techniques are introduced that will enable a genome-wide comparison of function
and gene expression for individual neurons.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.007 
PMID: 15271495  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1016. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):468-74.

Putting a spin on the dorsal-ventral divide of the striatum.

Voorn P(1), Vanderschuren LJ, Groenewegen HJ, Robbins TW, Pennartz CM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Research Institute Neurosciences, VU University Medical
Center, MF-G-102, PO Box 7057, 1007 MB, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Since its conception three decades ago, the idea that the striatum consists of a 
dorsal sensorimotor part and a ventral portion processing limbic information has 
sparked a quest for functional correlates and anatomical characteristics of the
striatal divisions. But this classic dorsal-ventral distinction might not offer
the best view of striatal function. Anatomy and neurophysiology show that the two
striatal areas have the same basic structure and that sharp boundaries are
absent. Behaviorally, a distinction between dorsolateral and ventromedial seems
most valid, in accordance with a mediolateral functional zonation imposed on the 
striatum by its excitatory cortical, thalamic and amygdaloid inputs. Therefore,
this review presents a synthesis between the dorsal-ventral distinction and the
more mediolateral-oriented functional striatal gradient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.006 
PMID: 15271494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1017. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):460-7.

Corticostriatal plasticity: life after the depression.

Mahon S(1), Deniau JM, Charpier S.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale U114, Chaire de
Neuropharmacologie, Collège de France, 75231 Paris Cedex 05, France.
stephane.charpier@college-de-france.fr

Experience-dependent changes in corticostriatal transmission efficacy are likely 
to support the role of the striatum in reinforcement-based motor learning.
Whereas long-term depression at glutamatergic corticostriatal synapses has long
been regarded as the normal form of striatal plasticity, recent work provides
evidence that use-dependent potentiation can naturally occur at these connections
through an increase in both synaptic efficacy and postsynaptic intrinsic
excitability. By decreasing the weight of cortical inputs required to fire
striatal output neurons, short-term and long-term potentiation at corticostriatal
connections can jointly participate in the formation of sensorimotor links by
which specific context-dependent patterns of cortical activity can engage
selected motor programs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.010 
PMID: 15271493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1018. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):453-9.

Computational models of the basal ganglia: from robots to membranes.

Gurney K(1), Prescott TJ, Wickens JR, Redgrave P.

Author information: 
(1)Adaptive Behaviour Research Group, Department of Psychology, University of
Sheffield, Sheffield S10 2TP, UK.

With the rapid accumulation of neuroscientific data comes a pressing need to
develop models that can explain the computational processes performed by the
basal ganglia. Relevant biological information spans a range of structural
levels, from the activity of neuronal membranes to the role of the basal ganglia 
in overt behavioural control. This viewpoint presents a framework for
understanding the aims, limitations and methods for testing of computational
models across all structural levels. We identify distinct modelling strategies
that can deliver important and complementary insights into the nature of problems
the basal ganglia have evolved to solve, and describe methods that are used to
solve them.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.003 
PMID: 15271492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1019. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):447-52.

Milestones of neuronal development in the adult hippocampus.

Kempermann G(1), Jessberger S, Steiner B, Kronenberg G.

Author information: 
(1)VolkswagenStiftung Research Group, Department of Experimental Neurology,
Charité University Medicine Berlin, Schumannstrasse 20/21, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
gerd.kempermann@mdc-berlin.de

Adult hippocampal neurogenesis originates from precursor cells in the adult
dentate gyrus and results in new granule cell neurons. We propose a model of the 
development that takes place between these two fixed points and identify several 
developmental milestones. From a presumably bipotent radial-glia-like stem cell
(type-1 cell) with astrocytic properties, development progresses over at least
two stages of amplifying lineage-determined progenitor cells (type-2 and type-3
cells) to early postmitotic and to mature neurons. The selection process, during 
which new neurons are recruited into function, and other regulatory influences
differentially affect the different stages of development.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.013 
PMID: 15271491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1020. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):445-6.

Do spines and dendrites distribute dye evenly?

Svoboda K.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):15-6.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.011 
PMID: 15271490  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1021. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):442-4.

Parsing brain activity with fMRI and mixed designs: what kind of a state is
neuroimaging in?

Donaldson DI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Stirling, Stirling FK9 4DU, UK.
did1@stir.ac.uk

Neuroimaging is often pilloried for providing little more than pretty pictures
that simply show where activity occurs in the brain. Strong critics (notably
Uttal) have even argued that neuroimaging is nothing more than a modern day
version of phrenology: destined to fail, and fundamentally uninformative. Here, I
make the opposite case, arguing that neuroimaging is in a vibrant and healthy
state of development. As recent investigations of memory illustrate, when used
well, neuroimaging goes beyond asking 'where' activity is occurring, to ask
questions concerned more with 'what' functional role the activity reflects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.06.001 
PMID: 15271489  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1022. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):440-1.

Presynaptic induction and expression of NMDA-dependent LTP.

Paré D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers State University,
197 University Avenue, Newark, NJ 07102, USA. pare@axon.rutgers.edu

It is almost axiomatic in neuroscience that postsynaptically induced
NMDA-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) is a cellular substrate of memory. As
a result, memory impairments caused by experimental reductions of NMDA currents
are often interpreted as evidence that this form of plasticity is involved in
memory formation. However, a recent Nature study indicates that not all
NMDA-dependent LTP is induced postsynaptically.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.004 
PMID: 15271488  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1023. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):428-37.

Receptor compartmentalization and trafficking at glutamate synapses: a
developmental proposal.

van Zundert B(1), Yoshii A, Constantine-Paton M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA
02139, USA.

This article focuses on NMDA receptor subunit changes that occur in the forebrain
and midbrain during development, namely the switch from predominance of NMDA
receptors rich in NR2B subunits to that of NMDA receptors rich in NR2A subunits. 
We review the potential roles in brain plasticity of two membrane-associated
guanylate kinases (MAGUKs), SAP102 and PSD95, which form a scaffold for the
ion-passing glutamate receptors at the postsynaptic density, and we consider the 
known functional significance of these molecules in subunit switching. In
addition, based on recent analyses of the synaptic location of glutamate
receptors, activity-dependent changes in developing visual neurons, and extensive
data on MAGUKs, we propose a model of glutamatergic synaptic differentiation. In 
this model, different NMDA receptor scaffolding and signaling complexes effect
the trafficking and synaptic localization of NR2A-rich and NR2B-rich receptors,
leading to tangential compartmentalization of these receptors and their movement 
between synaptic and extrasynaptic compartments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.010 
PMID: 15219743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1024. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):422-7.

Interneurons set the tune of developing networks.

Ben-Ari Y(1), Khalilov I, Represa A, Gozlan H.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Neurobiologie de la Méditerranée (INMED), Parc Scientifique de
Luminy, BP13, 13009 Marseille, France. ben-ari@inmed.univ-mrs.fr

Despite a rather long migratory journey, interneurons are functional before
vertically migrating pyramidal neurons and they constitute the source and target 
of the first functional synapses in the developing hippocampus.
Interneuron-driven network patterns are already present in utero while principal 
cells are mostly quiescent. At that early stage, GABAergic synapses--which are
formed before glutamatergic ones--are excitatory, suggesting that GABA is a
pioneer, much like the neurons from which it is released. This review discusses
this sequence of events, its functional significance and the role that
interneurons might play in the construction of cortical networks.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.002 
PMID: 15219742  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1025. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):415-21.

Orchestrating neuronal differentiation: patterns of Ca2+ spikes specify
transmitter choice.

Spitzer NC(1), Root CM, Borodinsky LN.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Section and Center for Molecular Genetics, Division of Biological
Sciences, UCSD, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. nspitzer@ucsd.edu

Appropriate specification of neurotransmitters is a key feature of neuronal
network assembly. There is much evidence that genetic programs are responsible
for this aspect of cell fate and neuronal differentiation. Are there additional
ways in which these processes are shaped? Recent findings demonstrate that
altering patterned Ca(2+) spike activity that is spontaneously generated by
different classes of embryonic spinal neurons in vivo changes expression of
neurotransmitters in a homeostatic manner, as if to achieve a constant level of
excitation. Activity-dependent changes in presynaptic transmitter expression pose
a matching problem: are there corresponding changes in postsynaptic transmitter
receptor expression, or are axons rerouted to novel targets with which functional
synapses can be formed?

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.003 
PMID: 15219741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1026. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):407-14.

The GABA nervous system in C. elegans.

Schuske K(1), Beg AA, Jorgensen EM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Utah, 257 South 1400 East, Salt Lake
City, UT 84112-0840, USA.

GABA neurotransmission requires a specialized set of proteins to synthesize,
transport or respond to GABA. This article reviews results from a genetic
strategy in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans designed to identify the genes
responsible for these activities. These studies identified mutations in genes
encoding five different proteins: the biosynthetic enzyme for GABA, the vesicular
GABA transporter, a transcription factor that determines GABA neuron identity, a 
classic inhibitory GABA receptor and a novel excitatory GABA receptor. This
review discusses the strategy employed to identify these genes as well as the
conclusions about GABA transmission derived from study of the mutant phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.005 
PMID: 15219740  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1027. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):400-6.

Regulation of neocortical interneuron development and the implications for
neurodevelopmental disorders.

Levitt P(1), Eagleson KL, Powell EM.

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt Kennedy Center for Research on Human Development and Department of 
Pharmacology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37203, USA.
pat.levitt@vanderbilt.edu

Neurodevelopmental disorders typically have complex endophenotypes, which can
include abnormalities in neuronal excitability, processing of complex
information, as well as behaviors such as anxiety and social interactions.
Converging experimental and clinical evidence suggests that altered interneuron
development may underlie part of the pathophysiological process of such
disorders. Consistent with this, mice with abnormal hepatocyte growth factor
signaling exhibit disturbances in the development of specific interneuron
subclasses that are paralleled by seizure activity and a complex behavioral
phenotype. Mutations in molecules that regulate different aspects of interneuron 
development could provide the heterogeneity in genetic susceptibility that, when 
combined with environmental disturbances, results in a phenotypic spectrum that
serves as the hallmark pathophysiology for autism, mental retardation,
schizophrenia and other neurodevelopmental disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.008 
PMID: 15219739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1028. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):392-9.

Patterns of neuronal migration in the embryonic cortex.

Kriegstein AR(1), Noctor SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY
10032, USA. ark17@columbia.edu

Real-time imaging of migrating neurons has changed our understanding of how
newborn neurons reach their final positions in the developing cerebral cortex.
The migratory routes and modes of migration are more diverse and complex than
previously thought. The finding that cortical interneurons migrate to the cortex 
from origins in the ventral telencephalon has already markedly altered our view
of cortical migration. More recent findings have demonstrated additional nuances 
in the migratory pattern and highlighted differences between subsets of
interneurons. Moreover, radial migration of pyramidal neurons does not progress
smoothly from ventricle to cortical plate, but is instead characterized by
distinct migratory phases in which neurons change shape and direction of
movement. Integrating these findings with the molecular machinery underlying
migration will provide a more complete picture of how the cerebral cortex is
assembled.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.001 
PMID: 15219738  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1029. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):384-91.

Developmental mechanisms patterning thalamocortical projections: intrinsic,
extrinsic and in between.

Vanderhaeghen P(1), Polleux F.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Recherche Interdisciplinaire en Biologie Humaine et Moléculaire
(IRIBHM), University of Brussels (ULB), 808 Route de Lennik, B-1070 Brussels,
Belgium. pvdhaegh@ulb.ac.be

Roger Sperry proposed 40 years ago that topographic neural connections are
established through complementary expression of chemoaffinity labels in
projecting neurons and their final targets. This led to the identification of
ephrins as key molecular cues controlling the topography of retinotectal
projections. Recent studies have revealed a surprising twist to this model,
shedding light on the developmental mechanisms patterning the projections between
the thalamus and the cortex: ephrins, unexpectedly expressed in an intermediate
target, control the establishment of topography of axonal projections between
these two structures. The same cues are re-used later to control the mapping of
thalamocortical projections within a given cortical area, which strikingly
illustrates how a limited set of genes can contribute to generate several levels 
of complexity of a neuronal network.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.009 
PMID: 15219737  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1030. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):378-83.

Reversal and consolidation of activity-induced synaptic modifications.

Zhou Q(1), Poo MM.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurobiology, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology University 
of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA.

Persistent activity-induced synaptic modification is generally regarded as the
cellular basis for developmental refinement of neuronal connections and for
learning and memory. It has long been recognized that synaptic modifications can 
be reversed by subsequent stimuli. Recent in vivo studies indicate that reversal 
of synaptic modifications is a natural process that can be triggered by
physiological activity. Long-term potentiation (LTP) of hippocampal synapses in
adult rats was reversed as rats entered a novel environment. LTP of retinotectal 
synapses in developing Xenopus was also reversed by subsequent spontaneous
activity. Repetitive stimulation with spaced patterns, however, can overcome this
reversal, leading to stabilized synaptic modifications. The requirement of spaced
stimulus patterns for stable synaptic modifications could ensure appropriate
refinement of developing connections.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.006 
PMID: 15219736  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1031. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):370-7.

The mGluR theory of fragile X mental retardation.

Bear MF(1), Huber KM, Warren ST.

Author information: 
(1)The Picower Center for Learning and Memory, Howard Hughes Medical Institute
and Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. mbear@mit.edu

Many of the diverse functional consequences of activating group 1 metabotropic
glutamate receptors require translation of pre-existing mRNA near synapses. One
of these consequences is long-term depression (LTD) of transmission at
hippocampal synapses. Loss of fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP), the
defect responsible for fragile X syndrome in humans, increases LTD in mouse
hippocampus. This finding is consistent with the growing evidence that FMRP
normally functions as a repressor of translation of specific mRNAs. Here we
present a theory that can account for diverse neurological and psychiatric
aspects of fragile X syndrome, based on the assumption that many of the
protein-synthesis-dependent functions of metabotropic receptors are exaggerated
in fragile X syndrome. The theory suggests new directions for basic research as
well as novel therapeutic approaches for the treatment of humans with fragile X, 
the most frequent inherited cause of mental retardation and an identified cause
of autism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.009 
PMID: 15219735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1032. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):366-9.

Dissecting complex behaviours in the post-genomic era.

Kas MJ(1), Van Ree JM.

Author information: 
(1)Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, Department of Pharmacology and
Anatomy, Behavioural Genomics Section, University Medical Centre Utrecht,
Utrecht, The Netherlands. m.j.h.kas@med.uu.nl

Identifying gene functions in behaviours has so far relied mainly on achievements
in the field of molecular genetics. Further progress can be made by developing
new approaches that allow refinement of behavioural phenotypes. The current
availability of several thousand different mutant mice challenges behavioural
neuroscientists to extend their views and methodologies, to dissect complex
behaviours into behavioural phenotypes, and subsequently to define
gene-behavioural phenotype relationships. Here, we plead for multi-day automated 
behavioural observations in carefully designed environments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.011 
PMID: 15219734  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1033. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):364-6.

The unexpected consequences of a noisy environment.

Wang X(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 720 Rutland Avenue, Ross 424,
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. xwang@bme.jhu.edu

A recent study found that the functional organization of auditory cortex was
disrupted when rats were exposed to a moderate level of continuous noise during
early development. However, this detrimental effect on auditory cortex could be
remedied later by stimulating the noise-reared rats with structured sounds. These
findings suggest that the endpoint of the "critical period" could be extended
well into adult life, which has significant implications for our understanding of
cortical plasticity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.012 
PMID: 15219733  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1034. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):362-4.

Lipids make smooth brains gyrate.

Price DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Genes and Development Group, Hugh Robson Building, George Square, Edinburgh
EH8 9XD, Scotland, UK. david.price@ed.ac.uk

The surface area of the cerebral cortex has increased massively during mammalian 
evolution and this change has been accompanied by folding of the cortical sheet
into gyri. The molecular mechanisms that control cortical size are poorly
understood. A recent study suggests that the regulation of cortical size might
involve phospholipids, by showing that their addition to cultured embryonic mouse
cortices increases cortical size and induces folds resembling gyri.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.008 
PMID: 15219732  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1035. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jul;27(7):361.

Nature and nurture in brain development.

Ben-Ari Y, Spitzer NC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.05.007 
PMID: 15219731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1036. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jun;27(6):352-9.

Transporter structure and mechanism.

DeFelice LJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Center for Molecular Neuroscience, Vanderbilt
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN 37232, USA. lou.defelice@vanderbilt.edu

During the past several decades, lac permease has assumed almost tutelary
proportions as a model for cotransporters. This archetypical membrane protein now
exerts its influence by the most dramatic means possible: its structure is
solved. This article describes the configuration and implied transport mechanism 
of the bacterial lactose transporter and compares its structure and function with
those of other transporters and those of ion channels. This juxtaposition of
transporters and channels is likely to be helpful because LacY is the first
cotransporter with known structure and exclusive carrier properties, and it
shares topology with neurotransmitter transporters with unknown structure and
channel properties.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.007 
PMID: 15165740  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1037. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jun;27(6):345-51.

Mechanosensitive channels: what can we learn from 'simple' model systems?

Sukharev S(1), Anishkin A.

Collaborators: Sukharev S(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, USA.
sukharev@umd.edu (2)U Md, College Park

Mechanosensitive ion channels, which convert external mechanical forces into
electrical and chemical signals in cells, are diverse. Presently, there is no
known common sequence 'signature' that identifies mechanosensitivity. Bacterial
mechanosensitive channels gated by membrane tension represent convenient models
allowing us to combine structural information with the insights gained from
biophysical analysis, biochemistry, genetic screens, bacterial physiology and
molecular computation. Here, the conformational transition driven by membrane
tension in the bacterial channel MscL is discussed. The predicted pathway
suggests roles for distinct protein domains, surrounding lipids and water in the 
gating process. MscL, a simple system, thus helps us obtain a coherent picture of
molecular events, and build concepts and strategies that can be applied to more
elaborate mechanosensory systems in the near future.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.006 
PMID: 15165739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1038. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jun;27(6):337-44.

Function and structure in glycine receptors and some of their relatives.

Colquhoun D(1), Sivilotti LG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University College London, Gower Street, London
WC1E 6BT, UK. d.colquhoun@ucl.ac.uk

In the field of ligand-gated ion channels, recent developments, both in the
knowledge of structure and in the measurement of function at the single-channel
level, have allowed a sensible start to be made on understanding the relationship
between structure and function in these proteins. In this review, the cases of
glycine, nicotinic ACh and glutamate receptors are compared and contrasted, and
problems such as how binding of agonist causes the channel to open, and why
partial agonists are partial, are considered. Some observations, both structural 
and functional, suggest that more attention needs to be paid to conformational
changes that occur before the channel opens. Such changes might account for the
interaction found between subunits of the glycine receptor while it is still shut
and, perhaps, the agonist-dependent structural changes seen in AMPA receptors.
They might also complicate our understanding of the binding-gating problem.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.010 
PMID: 15165738  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1039. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jun;27(6):329-36.

Cys-loop receptors: new twists and turns.

Lester HA(1), Dibas MI, Dahan DS, Leite JF, Dougherty DA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125,
USA. lester@caltech.edu

New hypotheses and predictions have arisen from recent work revealing
atomic-scale or near-atomic-scale structures of receptors in the 'Cys-loop'
superfamily. How general is the cation-pi interaction between the natural ligand 
and a tryptophan residue in the aromatic box, and does this interaction extend to
other ligands? What is the pathway from the binding site to gating, and what are 
the conformational changes during gating and desensitization? Is current flow
through intracellular 'portals' in the wall of the channel a general feature?
This article discusses these and related questions, emphasizing nicotinic ACh
receptors and also discussing data from other members of this superfamily.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.002 
PMID: 15165737  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1040. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jun;27(6):321-8.

Structure and gating of the glutamate receptor ion channel.

Wollmuth LP(1), Sobolevsky AI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, State University of New York at Stony
Brook, Stony Brook, NY 11794-5230, USA. lwollmuth@notes1.cc.sunysb.edu

Ionotropic glutamate receptors are ligand-gated ion channels that mediate rapid
information transfer at most excitatory synapses in the brain. Crystal structures
are now available for the ligand-binding domain, but the structure of the ion
channel itself remains unknown. The core of the ion channel shares structural
features with an inverted K(+) channel. In detail, however, differences are
emerging. Most notable in the glutamate receptor ion channel are distinct
structural and functional properties of a major pore-lining domain, the
requirement of an additional transmembrane segment (M4), and twofold rather than 
fourfold symmetry. Together with ligand-binding domain structures and kinetic
experiments, these findings have started to define the basic principles of
channel gating in glutamate receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.005 
PMID: 15165736  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1041. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jun;27(6):315-20.

The structural basis of ClC chloride channel function.

Dutzler R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190,
CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland. dutzler@bioc.unizh.ch

ClC channels constitute a large family of Cl(-)-selective ion channels that are
present in diverse organisms. The channels have a complex gating behavior, in
which channel opening and closing is tightly coupled to ion permeation. Recent
success in the structure determination of bacterial channels has revealed the
overall architecture of this family and provided important insight into ion
selectivity and gating. The ClC channels are homodimers, with each subunit
containing an ion conduction pore. In the narrow selectivity filter of each pore,
Cl(-) are bound to several sites through electrostatic interactions with helix
dipoles and the partial charges of protein residues. In the closed conformation
of the channel, a conserved glutamate residue occupies one of the ion-binding
sites; on channel opening, this glutamate residue moves out of the binding site, 
thereby making room for an additional Cl(-) ion.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.001 
PMID: 15165735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1042. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jun;27(6):308-14.

Permeation in ion channels: the interplay of structure and theory.

Miloshevsky GV(1), Jordan PC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Chemistry, MS-015, Brandeis University, PO Box 549110, Waltham, 
MA 02454-9110, USA.

Combined with high-resolution atomic-level crystal structures of channel forming 
peptides, theory has become a powerful tool for illuminating factors influencing 
permeation. Here, advantages and limitations of the more familiar continuum and
molecular modeling techniques are briefly outlined. These methods are applied to 
issues of permeation in two different channel families: gramicidin and K(+)
channels. Using structural data, theory provides verifiable atomic-level insights
into permeation dynamics, channel conductance and molecular selectivity
mechanisms. Not only can theory confirm experimental inference, it can also
sometimes provide structural perspectives in advance of experiment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.013 
PMID: 15165734  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1043. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jun;27(6):303-7.

Stirring up controversy with a voltage sensor paddle.

Ahern CA(1), Horn R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Institute of Hyperexcitability, Jefferson Medical
College, 1020 Locust Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA.

Neurons owe their exquisite electrical excitability to voltage-gated ion
channels. By creating and shaping the action potential, these voltage-sensitive
proteins supply the neuron with crucial communication skills. A steady stream of 
experimental results, arising from numerous laboratories and employing a diverse 
repertoire of techniques, has produced a consensus model of the way voltage-gated
ion channels sense and respond to changes in membrane potential. In contrast to
this consensus mechanism, recent studies of the voltage-gated K(+) channel KvAP
suggest a strikingly different mode of action. In this review, these disparate
models are compared and critically discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.008 
PMID: 15165733  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1044. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jun;27(6):298-302.

Structural changes during ion channel gating.

Doyle DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Structural Genomics Consortium, University of Oxford, Botnar research Centre, 
Oxford OX3 7LD, UK. declan.doyle@sgr.ox.ac.uk

Ion channels are generally multi-subunit complexes, with the ion conduction
pathway formed at the subunit interface. In moving between the closed and open
states, three structurally distinct channels, represented by the recently
determined structures of a mechanosensitive, ligand-gated and K(+) selective
channel, all move transmembrane helices away from the central ion conduction
pathway. In all three cases, this results in the displacement of a hydrophobic
gate from the ion conduction pathway, freeing ion movement. The channels achieve 
this by moving the transmembrane helices as rigid bodies using three major types 
of motion: MscL tilts its helices, the nicotinic ACh receptor rotates its
helices, and KirBac1.1 bends its helices. In all cases, the gating motions are
likely to take place rapidly. These large and fast movements provide a possible
explanation for why the conduction pathways of a wide range of different ion
channels are formed at the interface between subunits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.04.004 
PMID: 15165732  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1045. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jun;27(6):294-7.

Neuron-glia interactions clarify genetic-environmental links in mental illness.

Sawa A(1), Pletnikov MV, Kamiya A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, 600 N. Wolfe Street, Meyer 2-181, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA.
asawa1@jhmi.edu

How genes and environment interface to generate major psychiatric disorders such 
as schizophrenia has been puzzling, as are the relative roles of neurons and glia
in such disturbances. Tomonaga and colleagues have recently reported striking
neurobehavioral abnormalities in mice expressing Borna disease virus
phosphoprotein (BDV-P) selectively in glial cells. The study provides a novel
approach of linking environmental and genetic factors to behavior by producing
genetically engineered mice. The key role for glial BDV-P implicates neuron-glia 
interactions in the pathogenesis of psychiatric conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.012 
PMID: 15165731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1046. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jun;27(6):292-4.

Organizing pains.

Garry EM(1), Fleetwood-Walker SM.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience Research, Division of Veterinary Biomedical Sciences, 
The Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies, The University of Edinburgh,
Summerhall, Edinburgh EH9 1QH, UK.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci. 2004 Sep;27(9):519.

Chronic pain is sustained by central neuronal sensitization, with many similar
characteristics irrespective of the type of injury incurred. Nevertheless, pain
arising from nerve injury (neuropathic pain) is resistant to centrally acting
analgesics, whereas inflammatory pain responds well. New research indicates that 
the role of spinal NMDA receptors in chronic pain depends on adaptor proteins of 
the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) family and raises the
possibility that complexes of different composition might contribute
differentially to different pain states.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.014 
PMID: 15165730  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1047. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):283-9.

Targeting eNOS for stroke protection.

Endres M(1), Laufs U, Liao JK, Moskowitz MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Charité Hospital, Humboldt University, Schumanstrasse
20/21, D-10117 Berlin, Germany. matthias.endres@charite.de

Nitric oxide (NO) generated by endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) plays a crucial
role in vascular function and homeostasis. NO possesses vasodilatory,
anti-inflammatory, antithrombotic and antiproliferative properties. Augmentation 
of NO production increases cerebral blood flow, which can lead to neuroprotection
during brain ischaemia. Several modalities that upregulate eNOS expression and/or
activity have recently been identified, including HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors
(statins), steroid hormones, nutrients and physical activity. They all increase
NO bioavailability, leading to enhanced cerebral blood flow and protection from
ischaemic stroke. Thus, therapeutic modalities that target eNOS not only serve as
preventive measures to reduce stroke incidence but also could represent novel
treatment strategies for reducing brain injury during cerebral ischaemia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.009 
PMID: 15111011  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1048. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):278-82.

Neural mechanisms for prediction: do insects have forward models?

Webb B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Perception, Action and Behaviour, School of Informatics,
University of Edinburgh, James Clark Maxwell Building, King's Buildings, Mayfield
Road, Edinburgh EH9 3JZ, Scotland, UK. bwebb@inf.ed.ac.uk

'Forward models' are increasingly recognized as a crucial explanatory concept in 
vertebrate motor control. The essential idea is that an important function
implemented by nervous systems is prediction of the sensory consequences of
action. This is often associated with higher cognitive capabilities; however,
many of the purposes forward models are thought to have analogues in insect
behaviour, and the concept is closely connected to those of 'efference copy' and 
'corollary discharge'. This article considers recent evidence from invertebrates 
that demonstrates the predictive modulation of sensory processes by motor output,
and discusses to what extent this supports the conclusion that insect nervous
systems also implement forward models. Several promising directions for further
research are outlined.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.004 
PMID: 15111010  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1049. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):270-7.

DAncing past the DAT at a DA synapse.

Cragg SJ(1), Rice ME.

Author information: 
(1)University Department of Pharmacology, Mansfield Road, Oxford OX1 3QT, UK.

Spillover of dopamine (DA) from a release site into the extrasynaptic space is
widely acknowledged. Indeed, spillover is necessary for signalling by DA because 
its receptors are predominantly extrasynaptic. Dopamine transporters (DATs) are
often considered to participate in this process by 'gating' spillover. This
article reviews the competition between DATs and diffusion in sculpting
extracellular DA transients after quantal release, using a model based on data
from the literature. Its conclusions challenge the view that DATs limit synaptic 
DA concentration and gate initial spillover from a release site; this is the work
of diffusion. Rather, the greatest influence of DATs, or of their inhibition, is 
on the sphere of influence and lifetime of DA beyond a release site and, thus, on
net extracellular concentration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.011 
PMID: 15111009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1050. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):262-9.

Tonically active GABA A receptors: modulating gain and maintaining the tone.

Semyanov A(1), Walker MC, Kullmann DM, Silver RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, Institute of Neurology,
University College London, Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK.
a.semyanov@ion.ucl.ac.uk

GABAA receptors not only respond to the local release of GABA from presynaptic
terminals, but can also mediate a persistent 'tonic current'. This reflects the
activation of high-affinity GABAA receptors by ambient GABA concentrations. Tonic
GABAA-receptor-mediated signalling occurs in different brain regions, shows
cell-type-specific differences in magnitude and pharmacology, and changes during 
brain development. Some clues to the adaptive significance of this phenomenon are
beginning to emerge: in cerebellar granule cells, it alters the gain of
transmission of rate-coded sensory information; in the hippocampus, it acts in a 
cell-type-specific manner to regulate the excitability of the network. Because
tonic conductances can be modulated by changes in GABA release and uptake, and by
modulators of high-affinity GABAA receptors including neurosteroids, this
phenomenon provides a potentially important new window onto neuronal information 
processing and pathological states such as epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.005 
PMID: 15111008  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1051. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):257-61.

It's green outside: tracking cell surface proteins with pH-sensitive GFP.

Ashby MC(1), Ibaraki K, Henley JM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Synaptic Plasticity, Department of Anatomy, School of Medical
Sciences, University of Bristol, Bristol BS8 1TD, UK.

Green fluorescent protein (GFP) and mutated GFP variants have proved to be
immensely powerful tools that have had a profound impact on research in
biological sciences. This review considers the development, use and future
implications of pH-dependent GFP variants (e.g. pHluorins). These proteins hold
considerable promise for the relatively non-invasive monitoring of events such as
exocytosis, endocytosis and protein surface expression in living neurons with
high spatial and temporal resolution.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.010 
PMID: 15111007  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1052. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):250-6.

Memory traces of trace memories: neurogenesis, synaptogenesis and awareness.

Shors TJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Center for Collaborative Neuroscience, Rutgers
University, 152 Frelinghuysen Road, Piscataway, NJ 08854, USA.
shors@rci.rutgers.edu

To associate events that are disparate in time, the brain must record, retain and
perhaps even reflect on the individual events themselves. Aspects of such
learning can be probed with trace conditioning, during which an animal learns to 
associate events that are temporally distant from one another. For decades, we
have known that the formation of so-called trace memories (in which one stimulus 
is associated with a second stimulus that is discontinuous and later in time)
depends on the hippocampal formation. Recent findings indicate that the
hippocampus is crucial for the initial acquisition of trace memories but not for 
their expression or long-term storage. More recent findings implicate
neurogenesis, synaptogenesis and awareness in the formation of trace memories.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.007 
PMCID: PMC3363970
PMID: 15111006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1053. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):245-9.

Do acetylcholinesterase inhibitors boost synaptic scaling in Alzheimer's disease?

Small DH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology, Monash University, Victoria 3800, Australia.
david.small@med.monash.edu.au

Studies on neural networks indicate that the pattern of amnesia that occurs in
Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be reproduced by synaptic loss, but only when this
loss is accompanied by synaptic scaling, a homeostatic mechanism that maintains
the level of excitatory input on postsynaptic neurons. It is suggested that
increased cholinergic activity during the early stages of AD contributes to
synaptic scaling and that acetylcholinesterase inhibitors improve cognition in AD
patients by boosting this mechanism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.006 
PMID: 15111005  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1054. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):243-4.

Response to Quinlan and Nilsson: Astroglia sitting at the controls?

Pekny M(1), Pekna M, Wilhelmsson U, Chen DF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Sahlgrenska Academy at Göteborg
University, Medicinaregatan 9A, SE-413 90 Göteborg, Sweden.
milos.pekny@medkem.gu.se

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):241-2.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.01.012 
PMID: 15111004  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1055. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):241-2.

Reloading the retina by modifying the glial matrix.

Quinlan R(1), Nilsson M.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological and Biomedical Sciences, University of Durham, South
Road, Durham DH1 3LE, UK. r.a.quinlan@durham.ac.uk

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):243-4.

Remarkably, removing the major structural elements from astrocytes and Müller
glia in the mouse retina makes successful integration and differentiation of stem
cells into the retina more likely, as revealed by Kinouchi et al. These
ground-breaking results throw up several new conundrums in understanding the
process of stem cell recruitment, differentiation and incorporation into the
retina, but they also suggest novel ways to treat retinal degenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.02.009 
PMID: 15111003  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1056. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):238-40.

Star-cross'd neurons: astroglial effects on neural repair in the adult mammalian 
CNS.

Emsley JG(1), Arlotta P, Macklis JD.

Author information: 
(1)MGH-HMS Center for Nervous System Repair, Departments of Neurosurgery and
Neurology, and Program in Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Astroglia have long been thought to play merely a supporting role in the life of 
the neuron. However, these star-shaped cells have recently been the focus of
intense study that has begun to emphasize remarkable and novel roles for these
amazing cells. While astroglia play positive roles in the life of the neuron,
they can simultaneously exert negative influences. Kinouchi et al. convincingly
demonstrate and characterize an inhibitory role played by astroglia after
neuronal transplantation. These findings remind us that astroglia exert positive 
and negative influences on neuronal survival, migration, neurite outgrowth and
functional integration. Here, we review the complementary and often contradictory
roles of astroglia during neuronal integration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.02.008 
PMID: 15111002  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1057. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):235-8.

Gene therapy for ALS delivers.

Boillée S(1), Cleveland DW.

Author information: 
(1)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research and Departments of Cellular and Molecular
Medicine and Neurosciences, University of California, 9500 Gilman Drive, La
Jolla, CA 92093-0670, USA.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal, progressive neurodegenerative
disease that kills motor neurons. Despite a long disappointing history of human
trials with neurotrophins, including insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), Kaspar
and colleagues have successfully slowed disease in transgenic ALS mice by forcing
motor neurons to produce IGF-1 following retrograde delivery of recombinant
adeno-associated virus (AAV) injected into muscle. With the clinical safety of
both IGF-1 and AAV already established, this provides real hope for an effective 
treatment of ALS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.002 
PMID: 15111001  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1058. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):233-4.

RNA gains a new function: a mediator of neurodegeneration.

Orr HT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, University of Minnesota Medical School,
Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. harry@lenti.med.umn.edu

Over the past couple of years, it has become evident that some males carrying the
fragile X mental retardation (FMR1) premutation, typically viewed to be normal,
in fact manifest a neurodegenerative disease with ataxia and tremor. FMR1
premutation alleles uniquely produce FMR1 transcripts with an elongated CGG
repeat, leading to the hypothesis that premutant transcripts cause the
neurodegenerative disease in carriers. Recently Jin et al. demonstrated, in
Drosophila, that FMR1 premutation RNA causes neurodegeneration. These data show
RNA can induce neurodegeneration and provide strong evidence that FMR1 RNA
mediates the neurodegeneration in human premutation carriers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.003 
PMID: 15111000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1059. Trends Neurosci. 2004 May;27(5):231-3.

Modal gating of NMDA receptors.

Magleby KL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Miami School of
Medicine, PO Box 016430, Miami, FL 33101-6430, USA. kmagleby@miami.edu

The decay time course of excitatory postsynaptic currents generated by slow
glutamatergic synapses is determined by the single-channel kinetics of
postsynaptic NMDA receptor channels. In a recent study, examination of these
single-channel kinetics has revealed that NMDA receptors can enter into modal
gating. Linear free-energy analysis suggests that the various modes arise from a 
common reaction mechanism, providing further insight into the gating underlying
decay of the slow synaptic response.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.03.001 
PMID: 15110999  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1060. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Apr;27(4):177-80; discussion 180.

ET--phone the pain clinic.

Nicol GD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Indiana University School of
Medicine, Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. gnicol@iupui.edu

Recent findings by Khodorova et al. demonstrate that the vasoconstrictor
endothelin-1 plays an important role in certain nociceptive behaviors in an
animal model of pain, through activation of sensory neurons. Endothelin-1 might
also have the unexpected capacity to release an opioid from surrounding
keratinocytes and thereby inhibit the pain response. Such results suggest that,
in the periphery, there are important interactions between sensory nerve
terminals and surrounding cells, and that glia and keratinocytes could modulate
the perception of environmental stimuli to a greater extent than previously
considered.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.02.001 
PMID: 15108686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1061. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Apr;27(4):174-7.

The aperture problem in egocentric motion.

Murakami I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Human and Information Science Laboratory, NTT Communication Science
Laboratories, NTT Corporation, 3-1 Morinosato Wakamiya, Atsugi, Kanagawa
243-0198, Japan. ikuya@apollo3.brl.ntt.co.jp

When only a featureless straight contour of a moving object is visible, one
cannot tell its true velocity and the object seems to be moving perpendicularly
to its orientation. Using psychophysics and brain imaging, Goltz et al. have now 
demonstrated that this aperture problem also occurs in visual representations in 
egocentric coordinates. An afterimage of inclined lines that is perceived to move
with smooth-pursuit eye movements appears to move perpendicularly to the lines
rather than in the tracking direction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.01.009 
PMID: 15108685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1062. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Apr;27(4):171-4.

Endocytosis and synaptic plasticity: might the tail wag the dog?

Wilkinson RS(1), Lin MY.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. wilk@cellbio.wustl.edu

In nerve terminals, endocytosis in compensation for transmitter exocytosis was
once thought 'housekeeping'. Now, several lines of research utilizing optical
endocytic probes have coalesced into a new functional model. The model comprises 
two distinct endocytosis and vesicle-processing paradigms that are differentially
regulated in response to demand for transmitter. Under some circumstances, such
as recovery from short-term depression, it appears that endocytosis, and not
exocytosis, is rate-limiting for transmitter release and is therefore a principal
determinant of synaptic strength.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.01.011 
PMID: 15108684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1063. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Apr;27(4):169-71.

Muscle twitches during sleep shape the precise muscles of the withdrawal reflex.

Grillner S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Nobel Institute for Neurophysiology, Karolinska
Institutet, SE-171 77 Stockholm, Sweden. sten.grillner@neuro.ki.se

Very precise nociceptive skin reflexes that withdraw the skin from a harmful
stimulus are formed through an experience-dependent mechanism that develops
around two weeks after birth in rodents. Tactile input paves the way for the
nociceptive reflex, and nociceptive stimuli are not required for the reflex to be
formed. Petersson et al. show that the tactile input produced during muscle
twitches occurring during sleep are essential for this process to develop.


PMID: 15108683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1064. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Apr;27(4):225-30.

Coding and transmission of information by neural ensembles.

Averbeck BB(1), Lee D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Center for Visual Science,
University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627, USA.

The brain processes information about sensory stimuli and motor intentions using 
a massive ensemble of neurons arrayed in parallel. Individual neurons receive
convergent inputs from thousands of other neurons, leading to the possibility
that patterns of spikes across the input neurons might be crucial components of
the neural code. Recently, advances in multielectrode recording techniques have
allowed several laboratories to investigate the nature of the interactions
between neurons, and their potential role in information coding. Several recent
studies have found that the amount of information coded by correlated activity
about sensory and motor variables is small, casting doubt on the hypothesis that 
correlations between pairs of neurons are important for information coding.
However, other studies have documented the appearance of coherent oscillations,
during particular task epochs and conditions that require selective processing of
sensory information, supporting the hypothesis that coherent oscillations between
neurons might reflect the dynamic flow of information in the brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.02.006 
PMID: 15046882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1065. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Apr;27(4):218-24.

The dynamic clamp comes of age.

Prinz AA(1), Abbott LF, Marder E.

Author information: 
(1)Volen Center and Department of Biology, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA
02454-9110, USA. prinz@brandeis.edu

The dynamic clamp uses computer simulation to introduce artificial membrane or
synaptic conductances into biological neurons and to create hybrid circuits of
real and model neurons. In the ten years since it was first developed, the
dynamic clamp has become a widely used tool for the study of neural systems at
the cellular and circuit levels. This review describes recent state-of-the-art
implementations of the dynamic clamp and summarizes insights gained through its
use, ranging from the role of voltage-dependent conductances in shaping neuronal 
activity to the effects of synaptic dynamics on network behavior and the impact
of in vivo-like input on neuronal information processing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.02.004 
PMID: 15046881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1066. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Apr;27(4):210-7.

Presynaptic K+ channels: electrifying regulators of synaptic terminal
excitability.

Dodson PD(1), Forsythe ID.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Leicester, PO
Box 138, Leicester LE1 9HN, UK.

Potassium channels are crucial regulators of neuronal excitability, setting
resting membrane potentials and firing thresholds, repolarizing action potentials
and limiting excitability. Although most of our understanding of K+ channels is
based on somatic recordings, there is good evidence that these channels are
present in synaptic terminals. In recent years the improved access to presynaptic
compartments afforded by direct recording techniques has indicated diverse roles 
for native K+ channels, from suppression of aberrant firing to action potential
repolarization and activity-dependent modulation of synaptic activity. This
article reviews the growing evidence for multiple roles and discrete localization
of distinct K+ channels at presynaptic terminals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.02.012 
PMID: 15046880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1067. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Apr;27(4):203-9.

Neuronal Ca2+-sensor proteins: multitalented regulators of neuronal function.

Burgoyne RD(1), O'Callaghan DW, Hasdemir B, Haynes LP, Tepikin AV.

Author information: 
(1)The Physiological Laboratory, University of Liverpool, Crown Street, Liverpool
L69 3BX, UK. burgoyne@liverpool.ac.uk

Many aspects of neuronal activity are regulated by Ca2+ signals. The transduction
of temporally and spatially distinct Ca2+ signals requires the action of
Ca2+-sensor proteins including various EF-hand-containing Ca2+-binding proteins. 
The neuronal Ca2+ sensor (NCS) protein family and the related Ca2+-binding
proteins (CaBPs) have begun to emerge as key players in neuronal function. Many
of these proteins are expressed predominantly or only in neurons, sometimes with 
cell-specific patterns of expression. Their ability to associate with membranes
either constitutively or in response to elevated Ca2+ concentration allows the
NCS proteins to discriminate between different spatial and temporal patterns of
Ca2+ signals. Recent work has established several physiological roles of these
proteins, including diverse actions on gene expression, ion channel function,
membrane traffic of ion channels and receptors, and the control of apoptosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.01.010 
PMID: 15046879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1068. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Apr;27(4):194-202.

Dendritic guidance.

Kim S(1), Chiba A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Structural Biology, University of Illinois, Urbana, IL 
61801, USA.

Like axons, dendrites need guidance for proper orientation and positioning within
the brain. Guidance determines synaptic connectivity as well as the strength of
transmission. Recent in vivo studies have demonstrated that several cell-surface 
receptors, previously known as axon guidance molecules, are also responsible for 
the directed outgrowth of dendrites. Collectively, these studies reveal that the 
function of guidance molecules in individual neurons and individual processes is 
diverse and likely to be specifically regulated. Here, these studies are reviewed
and emerging issues and implications are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.02.011 
PMID: 15046878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1069. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Apr;27(4):186-93.

Interneuron Diversity series: Circuit complexity and axon wiring economy of
cortical interneurons.

Buzsáki G(1), Geisler C, Henze DA, Wang XJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers, The State
University of New Jersey, Newark, NJ 07102, USA.

The performance of the brain is constrained by wiring length and maintenance
costs. The apparently inverse relationship between number of neurons in the
various interneuron classes and the spatial extent of their axon trees suggests a
mathematically definable organization, reminiscent of 'small-world' or scale-free
networks observed in other complex systems. The wiring-economy-based
classification of cortical inhibitory interneurons is supported by the distinct
physiological patterns of class members in the intact brain. The complex wiring
of diverse interneuron classes could represent an economic solution for
supporting global synchrony and oscillations at multiple timescales with minimum 
axon length.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.02.007 
PMID: 15046877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1070. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Apr;27(4):181-5.

Cortical processing of complex sound: a way forward?

Griffiths TD(1), Warren JD, Scott SK, Nelken I, King AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University College London, London WC1H 0AP, UK.
t.d.griffiths@ncl.ac.uk

The organization of the cortical auditory system remains controversial. In
particular, the extent to which there is regional specialization in the cortical 
processing of complex sound is unclear. Here, we ask whether we are currently
asking the right questions of auditory cortex, or using the appropriate
techniques to do so. A key factor that will promote such understanding in the
future will be increasing dialogue between workers using electrophysiological
recording methods to assess the response properties of single neurons and those
using imaging techniques to map regional organization. In the future, further
insights will be obtained by efforts to test hypotheses developed on the basis of
one approach by the use of the other. Imaging can tell the neurophysiologists
where to look, and work on single neurons can constrain network models based on
imaging. There is a crucial need for better understanding of the anatomy of the
auditory cortex in different species and for comparative studies that will
underpin both approaches.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.02.005 
PMID: 15046876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1071. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):120-3; discussion 123-4.

Crossmodal integration--insights from the chemical senses.

Small DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neurology and Alzheimer's Disease Center, Institute of Neuroscience,
Departmentof Neurology, Northwestern Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL
60611, USA. d-small@northwestern.edu

Our understanding of the neural correlates of crossmodal binding in the human
brain derives almost exclusively from studies of audition, vision and
somatosensation. A new study by Gottfried and Dolan extends our understanding of 
multisensory integration by showing that facilitation of odor detection by visual
cues depends on object congruency, as well as on enhanced activity in the
superior temporal sulcus and a region of the orbitofrontal cortex that is
adjacent to olfactory association cortex.


PMID: 15046082  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1072. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):116-8; discussion 118-20.

Representation of stereoscopic structure in human and monkey cortex.

Tyler CW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Smith-Kettlewell Eye Research Institute, San Francisco, CA 94115, USA.
cwt@ski.org

Tsao et al. have recently used functional magnetic resonance imaging to compare
processing for moving stereoscopic forms in macaque and human brains. Most humans
exhibited activation in a swath of lateral occipital areas, extending into the
intraparietal sulcus, with a limited version of the same pattern in monkeys.
However, neither species showed strong activation of the motion area known as MT 
in monkey or its human homolog.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.12.009 
PMID: 15046080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1073. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):113-5.

Intracellular Ca2+ microdomain-triggered exocytosis in neuroendocrine cells.

Olivos Oré L(1), Artalejo AR.

Author information: 
(1)Departmentof Toxicology and Pharmacology, School of Veterinary Sciences,
Complutense University, Madrid, Spain.

Colocalization of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and exocytotic sites at the active 
zones of nerve terminals underlies 'synchronous' action potential discharge and
synaptic vesicle exocytosis, thus allowing fast interneuronal signalling. Such a 
demand for a rapid release is not expected in neuroendocrine cells whose
secretory products act throughout the entire organism. Nevertheless, by using
evanescent field imaging of near-membrane Ca2+ concentrations and fluorescently
labelled vesicles, Becherer et al. have recently reported exocytosis of
individual large dense-core vesicles triggered by Ca2+ microdomains formed around
clusters of open L-type Ca2+ channels in chromaffin cells from the adrenal
medulla. This finding, besides illustrating the power of new microscopy imaging
techniques, directly demonstrates in neuroendocrine cells a functional
interaction between Ca2+ channels and secretory vesicles very much reminiscent of
that in neurons.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.01.001 
PMID: 15046078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1074. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):111-3.

Subplate neurons: bridging the gap to function in the cortex.

Arber S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biozentrum, Department of Cell Biology, University of Basel, and Freidrich
Miescher Institute, Switzerland. silvia.arber@unibas.ch

The importance of subplate neurons in controlling multiple steps of cortex
development was recognized more than a decade ago. However, knowledge of the
precise function of subplate neurons in the establishment of cortical circuitry
has been missing. A recent study has now started to dissect the functional and
molecular mechanisms underlying the generation of transient neuronal circuitry in
the visual cortex.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.01.005 
PMID: 15046074  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1075. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):161-8.

Psychology and neurobiology of simple decisions.

Smith PL(1), Ratcliff R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Melbourne, Victoria, 3010, Australia. 
philipls@unimelb.edu.au

Patterns of neural firing linked to eye movement decisions show that behavioral
decisions are predicted by the differential firing rates of cells coding selected
and nonselected stimulus alternatives. These results can be interpreted using
models developed in mathematical psychology to model behavioral decisions.
Current models assume that decisions are made by accumulating noisy stimulus
information until sufficient information for a response is obtained. Here, the
models, and the techniques used to test them against response-time distribution
and accuracy data, are described. Such models provide a quantitative link between
the time-course of behavioral decisions and the growth of stimulus information in
neural firing data.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.01.006 
PMID: 15036882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1076. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):155-60.

Equivocal roles of tissue-type plasminogen activator in stroke-induced injury.

Benchenane K(1), López-Atalaya JP, Fernández-Monreal M, Touzani O, Vivien D.

Author information: 
(1)Université de Caen, CNRS UMR 6551, Centre Cyceron, IFR 47, Boulevard H.
Becquerel, BP 5229, 14074 CAEN Cedex, France.

Stroke represents a major health problem in the ever-ageing population of
industrialized nations. Each year, over three million people in the USA alone
suffer from this affliction. Stroke, which results from the obstruction of an
intra- or extra-cerebral artery, induces irreversible neuronal damage. The
clot-busting drug tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) is the only
FDA-approved therapy for acute stroke. Although tPA has been successfully used to
treat myocardial infarction due to clot formation, its use in the treatment of
occlusive cerebrovascular diseases remains controversial. Indeed, tPA is clearly 
beneficial as a thrombolytic agent. However, increasing evidence suggests that
tPA could have direct and deleterious effects on neurons and glial cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.12.011 
PMID: 15036881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1077. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):148-54.

The complex identity of brain tumors: emerging concerns regarding origin,
diversity and plasticity.

Noble M(1), Dietrich J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Genetics, University of Rochester Medical Center, 601
Elmwood Avenue, Box 633, Rochester, NY 14642, USA. mark_noble@urmc.rochester.edu

Elucidation of genetic and epigenetic mechanisms underlying neoplasia is one of
the great success stories of modern science, but this success has not been
associated with parallel improvements in the treatment of malignant tumors. One
possible explanation for this failure is that the most important variables that
support growth of malignancies are not yet identified. Another possible
explanation, however, is that multiple variables important in neoplastic
progression combine to create a level of disease complexity not taken into
account by current therapeutic approaches. The study of development and neoplasia
in the CNS provides some of the strongest support for the latter view--a view
that, if correct, would suggest that a radical rethinking of the biology of
malignancy is required if we are to make progress in the treatment of this
important medical condition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.12.007 
PMID: 15036880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1078. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):143-7.

Orchestrating development and function: retrograde BMP signaling in the
Drosophila nervous system.

Keshishian H(1), Kim YS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, Yale University, 
PO Box 208103, New Haven, CT 06520-8103, USA. haig.keshishian@yale.edu

Recent work has shown that bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) growth factors
regulate development of the larval neuromuscular junction (NMJ) of Drosophila.
Intriguingly, the same BMP growth factors also influence the expression of
circulating hormones that modulate the physiological properties of NMJs.
Together, the results suggest that retrograde growth factor signaling by BMPs
integrates neuromuscular development and function at both local and global levels
in the animal.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.01.004 
PMID: 15036879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1079. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):135-42.

Interneuron Diversity series: Interneuronal neuropeptides--endogenous regulators 
of neuronal excitability.

Baraban SC(1), Tallent MK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery and PIBS Graduate Program in Neuroscience, 
University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143-0520, USA.

Interneurons are often classified according to neuropeptide content. However, it 
is becoming increasingly clear that neuropeptides are more than convenient
neurochemical markers and can act as important modulators of neuronal activity.
Recent advances in understanding neuropeptide release and physiological actions
suggest that the interneuronal system of neuropeptides is crucial for maintaining
appropriate brain function under normal and pathophysiological conditions. In
particular, interneuronal neuropeptides appear to play roles in cognition and as 
endogenous anti-epileptic agents. This article describes current understanding of
the conditions under which neuropeptides are released from interneurons, their
specific effects on neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission, and the
consequences of their loss of function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.01.008 
PMID: 15036878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1080. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):129-34.

More than just two peas in a pod: common amyloidogenic properties of tau and
alpha-synuclein in neurodegenerative diseases.

Lee VM(1), Giasson BI, Trojanowski JQ.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research, Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, and Institute on Aging, the University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, PA 19104-4283, USA. vmylee@mail.med.upenn.edu

Intracytoplasmic filamentous aggregates, such as neurofibrillary tangles in
Alzheimer's disease and Lewy bodies in Parkinson's disease, are composed of the
proteins tau and alpha-synuclein, respectively. These pathological inclusions are
linked directly to the etiology and mechanisms of disease in a wide spectrum of
neurodegenerative disorders, termed 'tauopathies' and 'synucleinopathies'.
Emerging evidence indicates that there is frequent overlap of the pathological
and clinical features of patients with tauopathies and synucleinopathies, thereby
re-enforcing the notion that these disorders might be linked mechanistically.
Indeed, several lines of investigation suggest that tau and alpha-synuclein might
constitute a unique class of unstructured proteins that assemble predominantly
into homopolymeric (rather than heteropolymeric) fibrils, which deposit mainly in
separate amyloid inclusions, but occasionally deposit together. Thus, the ability
of tau and alpha-synuclein to affect each other directly or indirectly might
contribute to the overlap in the clinical and pathological features of
tauopathies and synucleinopathies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2004.01.007 
PMID: 15036877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1081. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):125-7; author reply 127-8.

How does Parkinson's disease begin? The role of compensatory mechanisms.

Obeso JA, Rodriguez-Oroz MC, Lanciego JL, Rodriguez Diaz M.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):215-21.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.12.006 
PMID: 15036875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1082. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Feb;27(2):74-6.

The cystine-glutamate transporter in the accumbens: a novel role in cocaine
relapse.

Lu L(1), Hope BT, Shaham Y.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral Neuroscience Branch, IRP, National Institute on Drug Abuse,
National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human Services,
Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

Baker et al. have recently studied the potential role of cocaine-induced
alterations in accumbens cystine-glutamate transporter activity (which controls
basal extracellular glutamate levels) during cocaine-induced relapse to drug
seeking in rats. Their data provide new evidence that neuroadaptations induced by
repeated exposure to cocaine and subsequent withdrawal can play a causal role in 
drug relapse. These data also suggest the cystine-glutamate transporter as a
novel target for medication that could prevent cocaine relapse.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.11.007 
PMID: 15106652  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1083. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Feb;27(2):72-4.

An action video game modifies visual processing.

Risenhuber M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departmentof Neurosciences, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, 
DC 20007, USA. mr287@georgetown.edu

In a recent paper, Shawn Green and Daphne Bavelier show that playing an action
video game markedly improved subjects performance on a range of visual skills
related to detecting objects in briefly flashed displays. This is noteworthy as
previous studies on perceptual learning, which have commonly focused on
well-controlled and rather abstract tasks, found little transfer of learning to
novel stimuli, let alone to different tasks. The data suggest that video game
playing modifies visual processing on different levels: some effects are
compatible with increased attentional resources, whereas others point to changes 
in preattentive processing.


PMID: 15106651  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1084. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Feb;27(2):69-72.

Cooperative LTP can map memory sequences on dendritic branches.

Mehta MR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departmentof Neurosciences, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, USA.
mayank_mehta@brown.edu

Hebbian synaptic learning requires co-activation of presynaptic and postsynaptic 
neurons. However, under some conditions, information regarding the postsynaptic
action potential, carried by backpropagating action potentials, can be strongly
degraded before it reaches the distal exhibit Hebbian long-term potentiation
(LTP)? Recent results show that LTP can indeed occur at synapses on distal
dendrites of hippocamal CA1 neurons, even in the absence of a postsynaptic
somatic spike. Instead. local dendritic spikes contribute to the depolarization
required to induce LTP. Here, a dendritically constrained synaptic learning rule 
is proposed, which suggests that nearby synapses can encode temporally contiguous
events.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.12.004 
PMID: 15106650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1085. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Feb;27(2):66-9.

Testing the ubiquitin-proteasome hypothesis of neurodegeneration in vivo.

Hernández F(1), Díaz-Hernández M, Avila J, Lucas JJ.

Author information: 
(1)Centro de Biología Molecular Severo Ochoa, CSIC/UAM, Madrid, Spain.

A common histopathological hallmark of most neurodegenerative diseases is the
presence of aberrant proteinaceous inclusions inside affected neurons. Because
these protein aggregates are detected using antibodies against components of the 
ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), impairment of this machinery for regulated
proteolysis has been suggested to be at the root of Neurodegeneration. This
hypothesis has been difficult to prove in vivo owing to the lack of appropriate
tools. The recent report of transgenic mice with ubiquitous expression of
UPS-reporter protein should finally make it possible to test in vivo the role of 
the UPS in neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.12.002 
PMID: 15106649  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1086. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Feb;27(2):62-6.

Does the fusion pore contribute to synaptic plasticity?

Krupa B(1), Liu G.

Author information: 
(1)Picower Center for Learning and Memory, RIKEN-MIT Neuroscience Research
Center, Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, MIT, Cambridge, MA 02139,
USA.

How synapses change their strength in response to impinging neural activity is a 
fundamental issue for understanding how the brain molds its circuitry in response
to behavioral experience. Although a growing number of studies reveal the
involvement of postsynaptic changes contributing to synaptic plasticity in brain 
circuits, the involvement of presynaptic factors has been implied by several
studies. Most recently, several works point to the mechanism of vesicle fusion as
a new possible locus for the modification of presynaptic synaptic strength.
However, it is not yet clear to what extent such changes affect the simplest form
of information transfer in the brain--the transmission of a single action
potential.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.11.006 
PMID: 15106637  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1087. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Feb;27(2):62-3.

Motor columns caged by crest.

Henderson CE(1).

Author information: 
(1)INSERM UMR382, Developmental Biology Institute of Marseilles, France.
chris@ibdm.univ-mrs.fr

During development, when barriers between the central and peripheral nervous
systems are less tight than at adult stages, it is important that each retains
its integrity. A recent article provides evidence that complex mechanisms prevent
cellular mixing during this period and reveals an unexpected ability of
postmitotic neurons to migrate along their own axons.


PMID: 15106634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1088. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Feb;27(2):104-10.

What's a cerebellar circuit doing in the auditory system?

Oertel D(1), Young ED.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Wisconsin, 1300 University Avenue,
Madison, WI 53706, USA. oertel@physiology.wisc.edu

The shapes of the head and ears of mammals are asymmetrical top-to-bottom and
front-to-back. Reflections of sounds from these structures differ with the angle 
of incidence, producing cues for monaural sound localization in the spectra of
the stimuli at the eardrum. Neurons in the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) respond 
specifically to spectral cues and integrate them with somatosensory, vestibular
and higher-level auditory information through parallel fiber inputs in a
cerebellum-like circuit. Synapses between parallel fibers and their targets show 
long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), whereas those
between auditory nerve fibers and their targets do not. This paper discusses the 
integration of acoustic and the proprioceptive information in terms of possible
computational roles for the DCN.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.12.001 
PMID: 15102490  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1089. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Feb;27(2):98-103.

VGLUTs define subsets of excitatory neurons and suggest novel roles for
glutamate.

Fremeau RT Jr(1), Voglmaier S, Seal RP, Edwards RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Graduate Program in Neuroscience, UCSF School of
Medicine, 600 16th Street, San Francisco, CA 94143-2140, USA.

Exocytotic release of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate depends on
transport of this amino acid into synaptic vesicles. Recent work has identified a
distinct family of proteins responsible for vesicular glutamate transport
(VGLUTs) that show no sequence similarity to the other two families of vesicular 
neurotransmitter transporters. The distribution of VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 accounts for
the ability of most established excitatory neurons to release glutamate by
exocytosis. Surprisingly, they show a striking complementary pattern of
expression in adult brain that might reflect differences in membrane trafficking.
By contrast, VGLUT3 is expressed by many cells traditionally considered to
release a different classical transmitter, suggesting novel roles for glutamate
as an extracellular signal. VGLUT3 also differs from VGLUT1 and VGLUT2 in its
subcellular location, with somatodendritic as well as axonal expression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.11.005 
PMID: 15102489  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1090. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Feb;27(2):90-7.

Interneuron Diversity series: Molecular and genetic tools to study GABAergic
interneuron diversity and function.

Monyer H(1), Markram H.

Author information: 
(1)IZN, Department of Clinical Neurobiology, University of Heidelberg,
Heidelberg, Germany. monyer@urz.uni-hd.de

Structural and functional diversity of GABAergic interneurons has become
increasingly central in our understanding of the elemental steps of information
processing in the brain. The use of different molecular, electrophysiological and
anatomical techniques has provided a wealth of new information regarding
GABAergic interneurons over the past decade but it has also led to confusion
regarding the number of subtypes of GABAergic interneurons. Combinatorial
approaches that also consider multiple parameters seem now to offer renewed hope 
for finally clarifying the structural diversity of GABAergic interneurons. New
molecular techniques have become a powerful tool for exposing the functional
diversity of GABAergic neurons at the cellular, microcircuit and systems levels. 
This article reviews literature regarding molecular tools that have been used, or
that appear promising for future attempts, to classify GABAergic interneurons.
Some important limitations will also be indicated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.12.008 
PMID: 15102488  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1091. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Feb;27(2):84-9.

What do catastrophic visual binding failures look like?

Billock VA(1), Tsou BH.

Author information: 
(1)General Dynamics, Suite 200, 5200 Springfield Pike, Dayton, OH 45431, USA.
vince.billock@wpafb.af.mil

Ordinary vision is considered a binding success: all the pieces and aspects of an
image are bound together, despite being processed by many different neurons in
several different cortical areas. How this is accomplished is a key problem in
visual neuroscience. The study of visual binding might be facilitated if we had
ways to induce binding failures. A particularly interesting failure would involve
a loss of the physical integrity of the image. Here, we identify conditions that 
induce such perceptual failures (e.g. the melting together of equiluminant
colored images and the fragmentation of retinally stabilized images) and we
suggest that these should studied using electrophysiological measures of binding.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.12.003 
PMID: 15102487  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1092. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Feb;27(2):77-83.

On the electrical function of dendritic spines.

Tsay D(1), Yuste R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, 1002 Fairchild, New
York, NY 10032, USA. dt133@columbia.edu

Dendritic spines mediate most excitatory inputs in the brain, yet their function 
is still unclear. Imaging experiments have demonstrated their role in biochemical
compartmentalization at individual synapses, yet theoretical studies have
suggested that they could serve an electrical function in transforming synaptic
inputs and transmitting dendritic spikes. Recent data indicate that spines
possess voltage-dependent conductances and that these channels can be
spine-specific. Although direct experimental investigations of the electrical
properties of spines have not yet taken place, spines could play a significant
electrical role, greatly influencing dendritic integration and the function of
neural circuits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.11.008 
PMID: 15102486  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1093. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):54-60.

Olfactory ensheathing cells and CNS repair: going solo or in need of a friend?

Barnett SC(1), Chang L.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Clinical Neuroscience, University of Glasgow, Beatson
Laboratories, Garscube Estate, Switchback Road, Glasgow G61 1BD, Scotland, UK.
s.barnett@beatson.gla.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.011 
PMID: 14698611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1094. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):48-53.

GPCR-mediated transactivation of RTKs in the CNS: mechanisms and consequences.

Shah BH(1), Catt KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology and Reproduction Research Branch, National Institute of Child
Health and Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD
20892-4510, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.11.003 
PMID: 14698610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1095. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):41-7.

Functional organization of PLC signaling microdomains in neurons.

Delmas P(1), Crest M, Brown DA.

Author information: 
(1)Intégration des Informations Sensorielles, CNRS, UMR 6150, IFR Jean Roche,
Faculté de Médecine, Boulevard Pierre Dramard, 13916 Marseille, France.
delmas.p@jean-roche.univ-mrs.fr

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.013 
PMID: 14698609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1096. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):30-40.

Interneuron Diversity series: Fast in, fast out--temporal and spatial signal
processing in hippocampal interneurons.

Jonas P(1), Bischofberger J, Fricker D, Miles R.

Author information: 
(1)Physiologisches Institut der Universität Freiburg, Hermann-Herder-Strasse 7,
D-79104 Freiburg, Germany. peter.jonas@physiologie.uni-freiburg.de

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.010 
PMID: 14698608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1097. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):24-9.

Synaptic frailty and clathrin-mediated synaptic vesicle trafficking in
Alzheimer's disease.

Yao PJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging/NIH, 5600 Nathan
Shock Drive, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. yaopa@grc.nia.nih.gov

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.012 
PMID: 14698607  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1098. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):17-23.

Excitotoxic and oxidative cross-talk between motor neurons and glia in ALS
pathogenesis.

Rao SD(1), Weiss JH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of California at Irvine,
Irvine, CA 92697-4292, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.11.001 
PMID: 14698606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1099. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):15-6.

Spines and dendrites cannot be assumed to distribute dye evenly.

De Simoni A, Fernandes F, Edwards FA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2004 Aug;27(8):445-6.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.006 
PMID: 14698605  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1100. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):11-4; discussion 14-5.

Coding and learning of behavioral sequences.

Melamed O(1), Gerstner W, Maass W, Tsodyks M, Markram H.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Mind Institute, EPFL, 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.014 
PMID: 14698603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1101. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):7-10; discussion 10.

NMDA receptor subunit gating--uncovered.

Gibb AJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University College London, Gower Street, London
WC1E 6BT, UK. a.gibb@ucl.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.007 
PMID: 14698601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1102. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):3-6.

Deconstructing the axon: Wallerian degeneration and the ubiquitin-proteasome
system.

Ehlers MD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Box 3209, Durham, 
NC 27710, USA. ehlers@neuro.duke.edu

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.015 
PMID: 14698600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1103. Trends Neurosci. 2004 Jan;27(1):1-3.

Living with the enemy: a physiological role for the beta-amyloid peptide.

Esteban JA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, 
MI 48109-0632, USA. estebanj@umich.edu


PMID: 14698599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1104. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):696-705.

Central sensitization and LTP: do pain and memory share similar mechanisms?

Ji RR(1), Kohno T, Moore KA, Woolf CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neural Plasticity Research Group, Department of Anesthesia and Critical Care, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02129, USA.

Synaptic plasticity is fundamental to many neurobiological functions, including
memory and pain. Central sensitization refers to the increased synaptic efficacy 
established in somatosensory neurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord
following intense peripheral noxious stimuli, tissue injury or nerve damage. This
heightened synaptic transmission leads to a reduction in pain threshold, an
amplification of pain responses and a spread of pain sensitivity to non-injured
areas. In the cortex, LTP - a long-lasting highly localized increase in synaptic 
strength - is a synaptic substrate for memory and learning. Analysis of the
molecular mechanisms underlying the generation and maintenance of central
sensitization and LTP indicates that, although there are differences between the 
synaptic plasticity contributing to memory and pain, there are also striking
similarities.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.017 
PMID: 14624855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1105. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):688-95.

Hyperexcitable dendrites in motoneurons and their neuromodulatory control during 
motor behavior.

Heckman CJ(1), Lee RH, Brownstone RM.

Author information: 
(1)Physiology and Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Institute for
Neuroscience, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 60126, USA.
c.heckman@northwestern.edu

Dendrites contain voltage-sensitive conductances that, in vivo, can be influenced
by neuromodulatory inputs. In spinal motoneurons, dendrites have
voltage-activated persistent inward currents that are facilitated by
neuromodulatory input from monoaminergic axons originating in the brainstem. The 
highest levels of monoamine input are likely to occur during 'fight or flight'
behavioral situations. At these high levels, the persistent currents are so large
that the dendrites of motoneurons become hyperexcitable, enhancing ionotropic
inputs by fivefold or more and allowing the firing rates required for maximal
activation of muscle fibers to be generated by surprisingly small inputs.
Moderate dendritic excitability (twofold to threefold enhancement) is likely to
be a standard component of many normal motor behaviors, such as locomotion. Thus,
during normal motor behavior, synaptic integration might be dominated by active
currents intrinsic to the dendritic tree rather than by the synaptic current
entering via ionotropic channels.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.002 
PMID: 14624854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1106. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):683-7.

Presynaptic Ca2+ channels: a functional patchwork.

Reid CA(1), Bekkers JM, Clements JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Melbourne, Grattan St, 3010,
Parkville, Victoria, Australia. careid@unimelb.edu.au

A key step in the release of neurotransmitter is the entry of Ca(2+) into the
presynaptic terminal via voltage-activated Ca(2+) channels. N-type and P/Q-type
Ca(2+) channels play a predominant role but, surprisingly, their distribution
across presynaptic terminals lacks any apparent order. They form a patchwork: at 
some terminals only N-type channels contribute to transmitter release and in
others only P/Q-type channels contribute, but in many terminals both sub-types
are active. The physiological implications of this non-uniform distribution are
starting to emerge. Recent studies reveal that G-protein-mediated depression of
N-type channels is stronger than that of P/Q-type channels, whereas
voltage-dependent relief of inhibition is more pronounced for P/Q-type channels. 
The patchwork distribution of Ca(2+) channel subtypes might therefore enable
terminal-specific modulation of transmitter release, enhancing the power of
synaptic processing.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.003 
PMID: 14624853  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1107. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):676-82.

Interneuron diversity series: inhibitory interneurons and network oscillations in
vitro.

Whittington MA(1), Traub RD.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Leeds, LS2 9NQ, Leeds, UK.
m.a.whittington@leeds.ac.uk

In vitro models of rhythms of cognitive relevance, such as gamma (30-80 Hz) and
theta (5-12 Hz) rhythms in the hippocampus, demonstrate an absolute requirement
for phasic inhibitory synaptic transmission. Such rhythms can occur transiently, 
of approximately 1 s duration, or persistently, lasting for many hours. In the
latter case, stable patterns of interneuron output, and their postsynaptic
consequences for pyramidal cell membrane potential, occur despite known
constraints of synaptic habituation and potentiation. This review concentrates on
recent in vitro evidence revealing a division of labour among different
subclasses of interneurons with respect to the frequency of persistent rhythms,
and the crucial dependence on gap-junction-mediated intercellular communication
for the generation and maintenance of these rhythms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.016 
PMID: 14624852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1108. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):671-5.

Brain, conscious experience and the observing self.

Baars BJ(1), Ramsøy TZ, Laureys S.

Author information: 
(1)The Neurosciences Institute, San Diego, CA 92121, USA. baars@nsi.edu

Conscious perception, like the sight of a coffee cup, seems to involve the brain 
identifying a stimulus. But conscious input activates more brain regions than are
needed to identify coffee cups and faces. It spreads beyond sensory cortex to
frontoparietal association areas, which do not serve stimulus identification as
such. What is the role of those regions? Parietal cortex support the 'first
person perspective' on the visual world, unconsciously framing the visual object 
stream. Some prefrontal areas select and interpret conscious events for executive
control. Such functions can be viewed as properties of the subject, rather than
the object, of experience - the 'observing self' that appears to be needed to
maintain the conscious state.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.015 
PMID: 14624851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1109. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):662-70.

Learning in Aplysia: looking at synaptic plasticity from both sides.

Roberts AC(1), Glanzman DL.

Author information: 
(1)Interdepartmental PhD Program in Molecular, Cellular and Integrative
Physiology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1606, USA.

Until recently, learning and memory in invertebrate organisms was believed to be 
mediated by relatively simple presynaptic mechanisms. By contrast, learning and
memory in vertebrate organisms is generally thought to be mediated, at least in
part, by postsynaptic mechanisms. But new experimental evidence from research
using a model invertebrate organism, the marine snail Aplysia, indicates that
this apparent distinction between invertebrate and vertebrate synaptic mechanisms
of learning is invalid: learning in Aplysia cannot be explained in terms of
exclusively presynaptic mechanisms. NMDA-receptor-dependent LTP appears to be
necessary for classical conditioning in Aplysia. Furthermore, modulation of
trafficking of postsynaptic ionotropic glutamate receptors underlies behavioral
sensitization in this snail. Exclusively presynaptic processes appear to support 
only relatively brief memory in Aplysia. More persistent memory is likely to be
mediated by postsynaptic processes, or by presynaptic processes whose expression 
depends upon retrograde signals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.014 
PMID: 14624850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1110. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):655-61.

Sperry and Hebb: oil and vinegar?

Cline H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724, 
USA.

The interface between so-called activity-dependent and activity-independent
mechanisms of circuit development is discussed here in light of recent findings
that question the role of activity in brain development. This debate is presented
simplistically here in terms of Sperry's chemoaffinity hypothesis versus Hebb's
rules of correlation-based synaptic change, which are often presented as being
mutually exclusive - much like oil and vinegar.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.005 
PMID: 14624849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1111. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):654.

Response to Honma and Honma: do circadian rhythms in cytosolic Ca2+ modulate
autonomous gene transcription cycles in the SCN?

Ikeda M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Behavioral Biology, Osaka Bioscience Institute, 6-2-4 
Furuedai, Suita, 565-0874, Osaka, Japan. msikeda@obi.or.jp

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.004 
PMID: 14624848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1112. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):650-3.

The biological clock: Ca2+ links the pendulum to the hands.

Honma S(1), Honma Ki.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Hokkaido University Graduate School of Medicine,
060-8638, Sapporo, Japan. sathonma@med.hokudai.ac.jp

The circadian clock in mammals is located in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic
nucleus. At the core of the clock are molecular autofeedback loops associated
with clock gene transcription. However, the mechanisms of circadian signal
transduction are basically unknown. A recent report by Ikeda et al. provides new 
insights into the intracellular signaling pathways involved in conveying
circadian clock information from the core loop to cellular functions. Cytosolic
Ca(2+) is proposed to be a key substance linking the 'pendulum' to the 'hands' of
the clock.


PMID: 14624847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1113. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):646-50.

MHC molecules in the vomeronasal organ: contributors to pheromonal
discrimination?

Hegde AN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, Wake Forest University Health
Sciences, Medical Center Boulevard, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA.
ahegde@wfubmc.edu

The vomeronasal organ of the accessory olfactory system detects pheromones in
several vertebrate species. Recent studies of vomeronasal sensory neurons have
shown that they express MHC molecules, which in the immune system help to
discriminate self antigens from non-self antigens. These new findings, along with
past research demonstrating MHC-based olfactory discrimination, suggest the
exciting possibility that MHC molecules together with vomeronasal
G-protein-coupled receptors play a role in distinguishing related individuals
from unrelated ones based on pheromonal cues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.10.001 
PMID: 14624846  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1114. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):643-5.

Sensation is painless.

Goodman MB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Stanford University,
Stanford, CA 94305, USA. mbgoodman@stanford.edu

Emily Dickinson declared: 'After great pain, a formal feeling comes'. This formal
feeling begins when sensory neurons are activated by noxious stimuli, such as
stepping on a tack. Recently, Seymour Benzer's group identified sensory neurons
in Drosophila larvae that mediate aversive responses to noxious heat and
mechanical stimuli. Thresholds for behavioral and nerve responses are elevated by
mutations in the painless gene, which encodes a TRP ion channel protein. Painless
thus joins an elite group of TRPs implicated in sensory transduction in insects, 
nematodes, mammals and fish.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.013 
PMID: 14624845  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1115. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Dec;26(12):641-3.

The morphogen sonic hedgehog collaborates with netrin-1 to guide axons in the
spinal cord.

Salinas PC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Imperial College London, Exhibition Road,
SW7 2AZ, London, UK. p.salinas@imperial.ac.uk

Netrin-1 is an attractive axon guidance molecule required for the proper
navigation of commissural axons to the floor plate in the spinal cord. A new
study now shows that sonic hedgehog (Shh) from midline structures collaborates
with netrin-1 to guide commissural axons. This new role for the morphogen Shh
raises the possibility that principles similar to those used to establish
positional information in embryonic patterning are also employed during axon
navigation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.006 
PMID: 14624844  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1116. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):631-40.

Interneuron diversity series: containing the detonation--feedforward inhibition
in the CA3 hippocampus.

Lawrence JJ(1), McBain CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory on Cellular and Synaptic Physiology, Building 49, Room 5A72,
NICHD-LCSN, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Feedforward inhibitory circuits are involved both in the suppression of
excitability and timing of action potential generation in principal cells. In the
CA3 hippocampus, a single mossy fiber from a dentate gyrus granule cell forms
giant boutons with multiple release sites, which are capable of detonating CA3
principal cells. By contrast, mossy fiber terminals form a larger number of
Lilliputian-sized synapses with few release sites onto local circuit
interneurons, with distinct presynaptic and postsynaptic properties. This
dichotomy between the two synapse types endows the circuit with exquisite control
over pyramidal cell discharge. Under pathological conditions where feedforward
inhibition is compromised, focal excitation is no longer contained, rendering the
circuit susceptible to hyperexcitability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.007 
PMID: 14585604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1117. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):625-30.

Tyrosine kinases, synaptic plasticity and memory: insights from vertebrates and
invertebrates.

Purcell AL(1), Carew TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior and Center for Learning and Memory,
University of California at Irvine, Irvine, CA 92697, USA.

Tyrosine kinases were first characterized in terms of their function during
development. Over the past decade, it has become clear that tyrosine
phosphorylation also plays an important role in the adult mammalian nervous
system. This article reviews three different families of tyrosine kinase
signaling cascades: the Trk receptor tyrosine kinases, the Src family of
non-receptor tyrosine kinases and the Eph receptor tyrosine kinases. Each of
these cascades has been implicated in both adult synaptic plasticity and memory
formation. Evidence from invertebrate systems also demonstrates a role for
tyrosine kinase signaling in the induction of long-term memory, suggesting that
molecular mechanisms of memory formation are conserved across species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.005 
PMID: 14585603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1118. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):618-24.

Making connections: cholinesterase-domain proteins in the CNS.

Scholl FG(1), Scheiffele P.

Author information: 
(1)Columbia University, Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, and
Center for Neurobiology and Behavior, College of Physicians and Surgeons, 630
West 168th Street, P&S 11-511, New York, NY 10032, USA. fg2008@columbia.edu

Recent studies have highlighted novel functions of a group of cell adhesion
molecules during nervous system development. Members of this protein family are
characterized by an extracellular domain with sequence homology to
cholinesterases and include the neuroligins, synaptic cell adhesion molecules
recently implicated in autism, and neurotactin, a cell surface receptor involved 
in axonal pathfinding. Although these proteins have a structural organization
similar to the enzyme acetylcholinesterase, the cholinesterase domain lacks
enzymatic activity and functions as a protein-protein interaction motif. This
protein family provides a striking example of how the function of a catalytically
active domain has evolved to mediate receptor-ligand interactions that regulate
morphogenetic processes during development of the nervous system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.004 
PMID: 14585602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1119. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):610-7.

New roles for astrocytes: gap junction hemichannels have something to
communicate.

Bennett MV(1), Contreras JE, Bukauskas FF, Sáez JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY
10461, USA. mbennett@aecom.yu.edu

Gap junctions are clusters of aqueous channels that connect the cytoplasm of
adjoining cells. Each cell contributes a hemichannel, or connexon, to each
cell-cell channel. The cell-cell channels are permeable to relatively large
molecules, and it was thought that opening of hemichannels to the extracellular
space would kill cells through loss of metabolites, collapse of ionic gradients
and influx of Ca(2+). Recent findings indicate that specific non-junctional
hemichannels do open under both physiological and pathological conditions, and
that opening is functional or deleterious depending on the situation. Most of
these studies utilized cells in tissue culture that expressed a specific gap
junction protein, connexin 43. Several such examples are reviewed here, with a
particular focus on astrocytes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.008 
PMCID: PMC3694339
PMID: 14585601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1120. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):604-9.

'Neuro'-peptides in glia: focus on NPY and galanin.

Ubink R(1), Calza L, Hökfelt T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Berzelius väg 1, SE-171 77,
Stockholm, Sweden.

The term neuropeptide was advanced by de Wied and collaborators in the early
seventies. At that time, they defined neuropeptides as endogenous substances
synthesized in nerve cells and involved in nervous system functions. Since then, 
several studies have revealed that the very same 'neuropeptides' are also
expressed in non-neuronal cells. It is therefore generally accepted that the
original definition of these peptides was too limited and, consequently, it has
recently been revised. Among the non-neuronal cells that synthesize neuropeptides
are several glial cell types.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.003 
PMID: 14585600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1121. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):597-603.

New roles for astrocytes: the nightlife of an 'astrocyte'. La vida loca!

Horner PJ(1), Palmer TD.

Author information: 
(1)University of Washington, Department of Neurosurgery, Harborview R&T Building,
325 Ninth Ave - Box 359655, Seattle, WA 98104, USA. tpalmer@stanford.edu

Like a newly popular nightspot, the biology of adult stem cells has emerged from 
obscurity to become one of the most lively new disciplines of the decade. The
neurosciences have not escaped this trendy pastime and, from amid the noise and
excitement, the astrocyte emerges as a beguiling companion to the adult neural
stem cell. A once receding partner to neurons and oligodendrocytes, the astrocyte
even takes on an alter ego of the stem cell itself (S. Goldman, this issue of
TINS). Putting ego aside, the 'astrocyte' is also (and perhaps more importantly) 
an integral component of neural progenitor hotspots, where the craziness or 'la
vida loca' of the nightlife might not be so wild when compared with our
traditional understanding of the astrocyte. Here, astrocytes contribute to the
instructive confluence of location, atmosphere and cellular neighbors that define
the daily 'vida local' or everyday local life of an adult stem cell. This review 
discusses astrocytes as influential components in the local stem cell niche.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.010 
PMID: 14585599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1122. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):590-6.

Glia as neural progenitor cells.

Goldman S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester Medical Center, 601 Elmwood
Avenue, Rochester, NY 14642, USA. sgoldm@med.cornell.edu

Recent studies have substantially expanded our conception of the roles for glia
in function and maintenance of the adult nervous system. Of these reports,
several have re-examined the lineage relationships among neural stem cells, their
early radial glial derivatives and their mitotically competent neurogenic
daughters. These studies have highlighted the role of radial cells in
development, and of their glial progeny postnatally, as both progenitors and
regulators of neuronal production and phenotype. In the adult mammalian brain,
radial cell populations are scant, but their glial derivatives participate in a
gliovascular network that organizes not only the structural and functional
architecture of the brain but also its generative niches for resident progenitors
- glial as well as neuronal. As in other organs, these progenitors can reside as 
transit-amplifying pools, by which lineage-biased progenitors expand to replenish
discrete mature phenotypes. This review will consider the types of
transit-amplifying progenitor cells persistent in the adult mammalian CNS, and
the extent to which these derive from glial phenotypes. It will also discuss the 
interactions of progenitor cells with their brethren that could specify their
phenotype and fate, while defining the permissive niches for cell genesis in the 
adult CNS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.011 
PMID: 14585598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1123. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):582-9.

Paradoxical activities: insight into the relationship of parietal and prefrontal 
cortices.

Barash S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, 76100, Rehovot,
Israel. shabati@weizmann.ac.il

What are the functions of the parietal and prefrontal cortices and how do these
regions interact to achieve their objectives? How does context change plans for
action? Are 'visual' and 'motor' well-defined attributes of neuronal activity in 
the association cortex? Recent studies of the saccadic system in monkeys have
revealed two sets of paradoxical data: in parietal cortex, activity has visual
timing but motor direction; in prefrontal cortex, activity has motor timing but
visual direction. Analyzing the prefrontal and parietal data together leads to
surprising insights. It appears that these paradoxical activities are
intermediates in a parietal-prefrontal-parietal loop that has a rapid turnaround,
and that a possibly prefrontal context-contingent signal switches sensorimotor
transformations in parietal cortex.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.009 
PMID: 14585597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1124. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):578-80.

Neuromelanin of the substantia nigra: a neuronal black hole with protective and
toxic characteristics.

Zecca L(1), Zucca FA, Wilms H, Sulzer D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biomedical Technologies - National Council of Research, Segrate, 
Italy. luigi.zecca@itb.cnr.it

Neuromelanin accumulates in dopaminergic neurons during normal aging, and in
Parkinson's disease, neurons with this pigment are those that selectively
degenerate. Intraneuronal neuromelanin could play a protective role during its
synthesis by preventing the toxic accumulation of cytosolic catechol derivatives 
and, in addition, by its ability to scavenge reactive metals, pesticides and
other toxins to form stable adducts. However, dying neurons in Parkinson's
disease that release neuromelanin might induce a vicious cycle of chronic
neuroinflammation and neuronal loss.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.08.009 
PMID: 14585596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1125. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):575-7.

Hot and cold in Drosophila larvae.

Zars T(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Missouri-Columbia, Division of Biological Sciences, 114 Lefevre 
Hall, Columbia, MO 65211, USA. zarst@missouri.edu

Temperature is one of our most important physical cues, with extremes eliciting
painful sensory warnings of tissue damage. Two recent publications present
findings in Drosophila that implicate different neural substrates for low- and
high-temperature responses, as well as indicating that a transient receptor
potential (TRP) channel family member, painless, plays a role in these responses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.09.002 
PMID: 14585595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1126. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):573-5.

Dynamic presynaptic varicosities: a role in activity-dependent synaptogenesis.

Muller D(1), Nikonenko I.

Author information: 
(1)Neuropharmacology, Centre Médical Universitaire, 1211 4, Geneva, Switzerland. 
dominique.muller@medecine.unige.ch

Recent developments in confocal imaging techniques have opened new avenues for
investigating how synaptic networks evolve over time. These studies have revealed
not only that synaptic structures are motile but also, most importantly, that a
fraction of synapses undergo a continuous elimination and formation process, and 
that these mechanisms are markedly enhanced by activity. Turnover of dendritic
spines was recently demonstrated in the somatosensory cortex upon sensory
stimulation. De Paola et al. have now provided evidence for correlated
remodelling of presynaptic structures. These results, together with others,
indicate that activation of neuronal networks enhances dynamic mechanisms at both
the presynaptic and the postsynaptic level, resulting in an increased turnover of
synapses and, accordingly, a reorganization of synaptic circuitry.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.08.010 
PMID: 14585594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1127. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Oct;26(10):564-71.

Interneuron Diversity series: Hippocampal interneuron classifications--making
things as simple as possible, not simpler.

Maccaferri G(1), Lacaille JC.

Author information: 
(1)Feinberg School of Medicine, Department of Physiology, Northwestern
University, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. g-maccaferri@northwestern.edu

The nervous system is made up of many specific types of neuron intricately
intertwined to form complex networks. Identifying and defining the characteristic
features of the many different neuronal types is essential for achieving a
cellular understanding of complex activity from perception to cognition. So far, 
cortical GABAergic interneurons have represented the epitome of cellular
diversity in the CNS. Despite the desperate need for effective classification
criteria allowing a common language among neuroscientists, interneurons still
evoke memories of Babel. Several approaches are now available to overcome the
challenges and problems associated with the various classification systems used
so far.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.08.002 
PMID: 14522150  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1128. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Oct;26(10):555-63.

Inflammation, degeneration and regeneration in the injured spinal cord: insights 
from DNA microarrays.

Bareyre FM(1), Schwab ME.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, University of Zürich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 
Zürich, Switzerland. florence@pcg.wustl.edu

GeneChip microarrays have recently been introduced to the field of neurobiology
to identify and monitor the expression levels of thousands of genes
simultaneously. This powerful technique is now used for studying the
pathophysiology of CNS injuries including spinal cord lesions. Early stages after
injury are characterized by the strong upregulation of genes involved in
transcription and inflammation and a general downregulation of structural
proteins and proteins involved in neurotransmission. Later, an increase in the
expression of growth factors, axonal guidance factors, extracellular matrix
molecules and angiogenic factors reflects the attempts for repair, while
upregulation of stress genes and proteases and downregulation of cytoskeletal and
synaptic mRNA reflect the struggle of the tissue to survive. DNA microarrays have
the potential to aid discovery of new targets for neuroprotective or restorative 
therapeutic approaches

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.08.004 
PMID: 14522149  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1129. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Oct;26(10):550-4.

The multiple personalities of h-channels.

Santoro B(1), Baram TZ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurobiology and Behavior, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032,
USA.

Concepts regarding the function of the hyperpolarization-activated current (Ih)
in shaping the excitability of single cells and neuronal ensembles have been
evolving rapidly following the recent cloning of genes that encode the underlying
'h-channels' - the HCN genes. This article reviews new information about the
transcriptional regulation of these channels, highlighting novel studies that
demonstrate short- and long-term modulation of HCN expression, and linking this
modulation to mechanisms of neurological diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.08.003 
PMCID: PMC2924161
PMID: 14522148  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1130. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Oct;26(10):543-9.

Malignant gliomas: perverting glutamate and ion homeostasis for selective
advantage.

Sontheimer H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Civitan International Research Center, The
University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35244, USA.
sontheimer@uab.edu

The malignant transformation of astrocytes, oligodendrocytes or their progenitor 
cells gives rise to tumors that are collectively called gliomas. Although the
vast majority of these tumors are believed to be of astrocytic origin, the actual
cell of origin remains unknown. And whereas gliomas present with some genetic
alterations in tumor-suppressor genes or oncogenes that are common among cancers,
their biology differs significantly from other neoplasms. Most notably, they grow
in a confined space defined by the bones of the skull and spinal column, and they
spread by active cell migration rather than by passive, humorous spread. Recent
research suggests that astrocyte-derived tumors co-opt neurotransmitters, their
transporters and ion channels to support their unusual growth and invasive
migration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.08.007 
PMID: 14522147  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1131. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Oct;26(10):536-42.

New roles for astrocytes: regulation of synaptic transmission.

Newman EA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, 6-145 Jackson Hall, 321
Church Street SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. ean@umn.edu

Abstract Although glia often envelop synapses, they have traditionally been
viewed as passive participants in synaptic function. Recent evidence has
demonstrated, however, that there is a dynamic two-way communication between glia
and neurons at the synapse. Neurotransmitters released from presynaptic neurons
evoke Ca2+ concentration increases in adjacent glia. Activated glia, in turn,
release transmitters, including glutamate and ATP. These gliotransmitters feed
back onto the presynaptic terminal either to enhance or to depress further
release of neurotransmitter. Transmitters released from glia can also directly
stimulate postsynaptic neurons, producing either excitatory or inhibitory
responses. Based on these new findings, glia should be considered an active
partner at the synapse, dynamically regulating synaptic transmission.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00237-6 
PMID: 14522146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1132. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Oct;26(10):531-5.

New roles for astrocytes: regulation of CNS synaptogenesis.

Slezak M(1), Pfrieger FW.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck/CNRS Group, UPR 2356, Centre de Neurochimie, 5 rue Blaise Pascal,
F-67084 Strasbourg, France. fw-pfrieger@gmx.de

The notion that astrocytes have a profound influence on the function of synapses 
between CNS neurons implies that the development of synaptic connections and
their glial neighbors are controlled by reciprocally acting signals. Currently,
however, synaptogenesis is considered a purely neuronal affair. This article
summarizes recent experimental evidence suggesting that this may not be the case.
Astrocytes may indeed regulate the formation, maturation and maintenance of
synapses. The recent advances caution that synapses cannot develop correctly
without astrocytes. Further progress on this issue requires new experimental
models to identify signaling pathways and to scrutinize the relevance of
glia-synapse interactions in vivo.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.08.005 
PMID: 14522145  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1133. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Oct;26(10):523-30.

New roles for astrocytes: redefining the functional architecture of the brain.

Nedergaard M(1), Ransom B, Goldman SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY 10595, USA.
maiken_nedergaard@nymc.edu

Astrocytes have traditionally been considered ancillary, satellite cells of the
nervous system. However, work over the past decade has revealed that they
interact with the vasculature to form a gliovascular network that might organize 
not only the structural architecture of the brain but also its communication
pathways, activation, thresholds and plasticity. The net effect is that astroglia
demarcate gray matter regions, both cortical and subcortical, into functional
compartments whose internal activation thresholds and external outputs are
regulated by single glial cells. The array of these astrocyte-delimited
microdomains along the capillary microvasculature allows the formation of
higher-order gliovascular units, which serve to match local neural activity and
blood flow while regulating neuronal firing thresholds through coordinative glial
signaling. By these means, astrocytes might establish the functional as well as
the structural architecture of the adult brain.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.08.008 
PMID: 14522144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1134. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Oct;26(10):520-2.

New roles for astrocytes (stars at last).

Ransom B(1), Behar T, Nedergaard M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Washington, 1959 NE Pacific, Room
RR650, Box 356465, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. bransom@u.washington.edu

Astrocytes have been presumed to be uninteresting for the better part of a
century. Recent findings suggest unexpected new functions for these cells and
highlight the importance of viewing most brain activities as a collaboration
between astrocytes and neurons. Astrocytes have been implicated in dynamic
regulation of neuron production, synaptic network formation, neuron electrical
activity and specific neurological diseases. We are only at the threshold of
understanding fully the nature and consequences of these new astrocyte functions,
and there is still much to be learned about the older and better-known roles. But
now, at last, astrocytes have our attention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2003.08.006 
PMID: 14522143  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1135. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Oct;26(10):517-9.

Alpha-synuclein oligomerization: a role for lipids?

Welch K(1), Yuan J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, 240 Longwood Avenue,
Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Alpha-Synuclein is a core component of the proteinaceous aggregates observed in
several neurodegenerative diseases. A central role of alpha-synuclein in
neurodegeneration was demonstrated by the discovery of missense alpha-synuclein
mutations in familial Parkinson's disease. However, the specific mechanism by
which alpha-synuclein contributes to these diseases remains unclear. A recent
study by Sharon et al. linked the presence of specific fatty acids to the
appearance of alpha-synuclein oligomers in vivo. alpha-Synuclein oligomers might 
be a first step in the formation of alpha-synuclein aggregates present in a
number of neurodegenerative diseases, although their cytotoxicity remains to be
directly demonstrated.


PMID: 14522142  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1136. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Oct;26(10):515-7.

Neurons that respond to more than one depth cue.

Howard IP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Vision Research, York University, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M3J 1P3.
ihoward@cvr.yorku.ca

The 3D orientation of a surface can be specified by perspective, motion parallax 
or binocular disparity. Tsutsui et al. have found cells in the monkey
intraparietal sulcus that responded to surface orientation defined only by a
texture gradient. Most of these cells also responded to orientation defined only 
by binocular disparity.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00238-8 
PMID: 14522141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1137. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):507-13.

Parsing reward.

Berridge KC(1), Robinson TE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Biopsychology Program, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, MI 48109-1109, USA. berridge@umich.edu

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci. 2003 Nov;26(11):581.

Advances in neurobiology permit neuroscientists to manipulate specific brain
molecules, neurons and systems. This has lead to major advances in the
neuroscience of reward. Here, it is argued that further advances will require
equal sophistication in parsing reward into its specific psychological
components: (1) learning (including explicit and implicit knowledge produced by
associative conditioning and cognitive processes); (2) affect or emotion
(implicit 'liking' and conscious pleasure) and (3) motivation (implicit incentive
salience 'wanting' and cognitive incentive goals). The challenge is to identify
how different brain circuits mediate different psychological components of
reward, and how these components interact.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00233-9 
PMID: 12948663  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1138. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):501-6.

Dendritic processing within olfactory bulb circuits.

Schoppa NE(1), Urban NN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Colorado Health
Sciences Center, 4200 East Ninth Avenue, MS3607 Campus Box C-240, Denver, CO
80262, USA. nathan.schoppa@uchsc.edu

Odors elicit a well-organized pattern of activation in glomeruli across the
surface of the olfactory bulb. However, the mechanisms by which this map is
transformed into an odor code by the bulb circuitry remain unclear. Recent
physiological studies in bulb slices have identified several synaptic processes
that could be involved in sharpening odorant signals. Mitral cells within a
single odorant receptor-specific network can be synchronized by dendrodendritic
excitatory interactions in a glomerulus, whereas mitral cells in different
networks engage in long-lasting lateral inhibition mediated by dendrodendritic
synapses with interneurons. The emerging picture is one in which groups of mitral
cells use a unique set of mechanisms to accomplish computational functions
similar to those performed by analogous modular structures in other sensory
systems.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00228-5 
PMID: 12948662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1139. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):496-500.

Proteinase-activated receptors: novel signals for peripheral nerves.

Vergnolle N(1), Ferazzini M, D'Andrea MR, Buddenkotte J, Steinhoff M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, University of Calgary, 3330
Hospital Drive NW, Calgary, Alberta, Canada, T2N 4N1. nvergnol@ucalgary.ca

The discovery of proteinase-activated receptors (PARs) in the nervous system has 
led to new insights about the potential physiological functions of these enzymes,
which were traditionally considered merely as degradative molecules. This review 
summarizes evidence that proteinases, through activation of PARs, interact with
the peripheral nervous system (PNS), playing roles in neurogenic inflammation,
pain perception, secretory and motor functions, as well as in the response to
nerve injuries. Activation of PARs interferes with numerous physiological events 
that are under tight neural control, in addition to modulating nerve survival.
New potential roles are suggested for members of the PAR family, highlighting
proteinases and their receptors as potential therapeutic targets for diseases
associated with PNS activation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00208-X 
PMID: 12948661  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1140. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):489-95.

Interneuron Diversity series: Rhythm and mood in perisomatic inhibition.

Freund TF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Budapest,
PO Box 67, H-1450, Hungary. freund@koki.hu

GABAergic interneurons innervating the perisomatic region of pyramidal cells
control population discharge patterns, and thereby all cognitive operations in
the cerebral cortex. A striking dichotomy in the function of this interneuron
population seems to emerge from the synthesis of recent molecular, anatomical and
electrophysiological data. Synaptically and electrically coupled networks of
parvalbumin-containing basket cells operate as a non-plastic, precision clockwork
for gamma and theta oscillations, and are indispensable for basic cortical
processing. By contrast, a highly modifiable interneuron syncytium containing
cholecystokinin carries information from subcortical pathways about the
emotional, motivational and general physiological state of the animal, and
appears to be involved in the fine-tuning of network cooperativity. Impairment of
this inhibitory mechanism is likely to result in mood disorders such as anxiety.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00227-3 
PMID: 12948660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1141. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):484-8.

Interneuron Diversity series: Interneuron research--challenges and strategies.

Mott DD(1), Dingledine R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA
30322, USA.

The field of interneuron research has come of age. An influx of new data has shed
light on many areas, but has also highlighted major challenges. The articles in
this review series will address several of these challenges, including developing
a standardized classification scheme, defining how the integrative properties of 
interneurons shape their functional roles (including the generation of
oscillatory activity), and identifying molecular mechanisms of synaptic
plasticity. New technologies can help us address these problems in ways not
previously possible. To coordinate the vast amount of data being generated, we
propose the creation of a world-wide-web Interneuron Database that will
facilitate inter-laboratory comparisons and collaborative studies. A well-crafted
database has the potential to bring new insight by standardizing and organizing
data collected in physiological, anatomical and molecular studies.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00200-5 
PMID: 12948659  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1142. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):477-83.

The ASICs: signaling molecules? Modulators?

Krishtal O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bogomoletz Institute of Physiology, Bogomoletz Str. 4, 01024, Kiev, Ukraine.
krishtal@serv.biph.kiev.ua

Acid-sensing ionic channels (ASICs) are almost ubiquitous in the mammalian
nervous system, both at the periphery and in the brain. Strong evidence for the
physiological function of these molecules has come from recent knockout
experiments. Now it is clear that ASICs are important for certain sensory
modalities (mechanoreception and nociception) at the periphery and for learning
and memory in the brain. The actual mechanisms by which the acid-gated channels
serve these functions remain unclear. The question of whether tissue pH is
subject to quick fluctuations of a magnitude sufficient to activate ASICs is a
crucial point that will determine the functional significance of these channels.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00210-8 
PMID: 12948658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1143. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):469-76.

Forebrain gene expression domains and the evolving prosomeric model.

Puelles L(1), Rubenstein JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Anatomy and Psychobiology, Faculty of Medicine, University
of Murcia, Murcia 30100, Spain. puelles@um.es

The prosomeric model attributes morphological meaning to gene expression patterns
and other data in the forebrain. It divides this territory into the same
transverse segments (prosomeres) and longitudinal zones in all vertebrates. The
axis and longitudinal zones of this model are widely accepted but controversy
subsists about the number of prosomeres and their nature as segments. We describe
difficulties encountered in establishing continuity between prosomeric limits
postulated in the hypothalamus and intra-telencephalic limits. Such difficulties 
throw doubt on the intersegmental nature of these limits. We sketch a simplified 
model, in which the secondary prosencephalon (telencephalon plus hypothalamus) is
a complex protosegment not subdivided into prosomeres, which exhibits patterning 
singularities. By contrast, we continue to postulate that prosomeres p1-p3 (i.e. 
the pretectum, thalamus and prethalamus) are the caudal forebrain.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00234-0 
PMID: 12948657  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1144. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):465-6; author reply 466-8.

Long-term memory: does it have a structural or chemical basis?

Arshavsky YI.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):65-72.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00229-7 
PMID: 12948655  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1145. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):463-5.

Wake up and smell the conspecific!

Holy TE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, Campus Box
8108, St Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. holy@pcg.wustl.edu

Mammals regulate their behavior using odor cues called pheromones. These
compounds are detected and recognized by neurons in the accessory olfactory
system. New electrophysiological recordings in behaving mice by Luo, Fee and Katz
reveal aspects of pheromone biology and how these stimuli are represented by
single neurons.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00232-7 
PMID: 12948654  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1146. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):461-3.

A new wrestler in the battle between alpha- and beta-secretases for cleavage of
APP.

Neve RL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, MRC 223, McLean Hospital,
115 Mill Street, Belmont, MA 02478, USA. neve@helix.mgh.harvard.edu

Modulation of the proteases that process the amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a
major therapeutic strategy for the treatment and prevention of Alzheimer's
disease (AD). The discovery of a novel endogenous modulator of
alpha-secretase-mediated, in preference to beta-secretase-mediated, cleavage of
APP implicates sumoylation in the etiology of AD, and offers a new therapeutic
target for intervention in APP processing.


PMID: 12948653  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1147. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):458-61.

Making (a) sense of non-visual ocular photoreception.

Van Gelder RN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University Medical
School, Campus Box 8096, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St Louis, MO 63110, USA.
vangelder@vision.wustl.edu

A subset of intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells transduce
information about ambient lighting conditions to areas of the brain involved in
tasks including entrainment of the circadian clock, pupillary light reflexes and 
melatonin synthesis. The phototransduction system(s) utilized by these cells are 
unknown. Melanopsin and cryptochromes have been proposed as candidate
photopigments for this system. Recent analyses of retinal degenerate mice lacking
melanopsin or cryptochromes indicates that outer and inner photoreceptors can
both contribute to non-visual photoresponses, and that both melanopsin and
cryptochromes play important roles in this process.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00211-X 
PMID: 12948652  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1148. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):456-8.

Inhibitory circuits in sensory maps develop through excitation.

Issa NP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Pharmacology and Physiology, The University of
Chicago, 947 E. 58th Street MC 0926, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA.
nissa@drugs.bsd.uchicago.edu

Inhibitory and excitatory connections are equal partners in determining neuronal 
response properties. Although the development and plasticity of excitatory
networks have been heavily studied, little is known about how inhibitory circuits
develop. In a recent study, Gunsoo Kim and Karl Kandler have shown that, as in
the development of excitatory circuits, synapse elimination and strengthening are
important processes for the development of well-organized inhibitory circuits.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00209-1 
PMID: 12948651  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1149. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):453-5.

Dishevelled: linking convergent extension with neural tube closure.

Copp AJ(1), Greene ND, Murdoch JN.

Author information: 
(1)Neural Development Unit, Institute of Child Health, University College, London
WC1N 1EH, UK. a.copp@ich.ucl.ac.uk

Neural tube closure fails in both mouse and Xenopus when dishevelled and other
components of the planar-cell-polarity pathway are misregulated. The underlying
defect involves a failure of convergent extension in the midline of the early
neural plate. Although bilateral neural folds form, they are abnormally far apart
and cannot achieve the apposition necessary for neural tube closure.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00212-1 
PMID: 12948650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1150. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):444-52.

Visualizing phosphoinositide signalling in single neurons gets a green light.

Nahorski SR(1), Young KW, John Challiss RA, Nash MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Leicester,
Maurice Shock Medical Sciences Building, University Road, LE1 9HN, Leicester, UK.
srn@le.ac.uk

There is now substantial evidence, from single-cell imaging, that complex
patterns of release from Ca(2+) stores play an important role in regulating
synaptic efficacy and plasticity. Moreover, the major mechanism of store release 
depends on the generation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P(3)]
through the action of phospholipase(s) C on phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate
[PtdIns(4,5)P(2)], and several neurotransmitters can enhance receptor-mediated
activation of this enzyme. The recent development of techniques to image
real-time changes in PtdIns(4,5)P(2) hydrolysis according to generation of
Ins(1,4,5)P(3) and diacylglycerol in single cells has significantly advanced our 
ability to investigate these signalling pathways, particularly in relation to
single-cell Ca(2+) signals. This article reviews these new approaches and how
they have provided novel insights into mechanisms underlying spatio-temporal
Ca(2+) signals and phospholipase C activation in neurons.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00178-4 
PMID: 12900176  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1151. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):436-43.

When inhibition goes incognito: feedback interaction between spiny projection
neurons in striatal function.

Plenz D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Neural Network Physiology, Laboratory of Systems Neuroscience,
National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda
20892, USA. plenzd@intra.nimh.nih.gov

Theories about basal ganglia function have always been driven by our knowledge
about the spiny projection neurons of the striatum. At the core of these theories
lies the question of how, precisely, spiny projection neurons process cortical
inputs. Most recently, studies demonstrating the role of spiny projection neurons
in local synaptic GABA transmission have provided several new avenues for
exploring striatal dynamics. They have also suggested new experimental directives
for examining the specific ways in which spiny projection neurons both compete
and cooperate through their local axon collaterals during cortical input
processing.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00196-6 
PMID: 12900175  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1152. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):429-35.

Hemispheric asymmetries in cerebral cortical networks.

Hutsler J(1), Galuske RA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Program in Neuroscience, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, MI 48109-1109, USA. hutsler@umich.edu

Since the middle of the 19th century it has been recognized that several higher
cognitive functions, including language, are lateralized in cerebral cortex.
Neuropsychological studies on patients with brain lesions and rapid developments 
in brain imaging techniques have provided us with an increasing body of data on
the functional aspects of language lateralization, but little is known about the 
substrate on which these specializations are realized. Much attention has been
focused on the gross size and shape of cortical regions involved, but recent
findings indicate that the columnar and connectional structure within auditory
and language cortex in the left hemisphere are distinct from those in homotopic
regions in the right hemisphere. These findings concern parameters that are
closely linked to the processing architecture within the respective regions.
Thus, the comparison of these microanatomical specializations with their
respective functional counterparts provides important insights into the
functional role of cerebral cortical organization and its consequences for
processing of cortical information in the implementation of complex cognitive
functions.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00198-X 
PMID: 12900174  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1153. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):423-8.

A computational substrate for incentive salience.

McClure SM(1), Daw ND, Montague PR.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Theoretical Neuroscience, Human Neuroimaging Laboratory, Baylor
College of Medicine, 1 Baylor Plaza, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Theories of dopamine function are at a crossroads. Computational models derived
from single-unit recordings capture changes in dopaminergic neuron firing rate as
a prediction error signal. These models employ the prediction error signal in two
roles: learning to predict future rewarding events and biasing action choice.
Conversely, pharmacological inhibition or lesion of dopaminergic neuron function 
diminishes the ability of an animal to motivate behaviors directed at acquiring
rewards. These lesion experiments have raised the possibility that dopamine
release encodes a measure of the incentive value of a contemplated behavioral
act. The most complete psychological idea that captures this notion frames the
dopamine signal as carrying 'incentive salience'. On the surface, these two
competing accounts of dopamine function seem incommensurate. To the contrary, we 
demonstrate that both of these functions can be captured in a single
computational model of the involvement of dopamine in reward prediction for the
purpose of reward seeking.


PMID: 12900173  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1154. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):413-22.

Synaptotagmin I, a Ca2+ sensor for neurotransmitter release.

Koh TW(1), Bellen HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Developmental Biology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX
77030, USA.

The discovery that Ca(2+) triggers rapid neurotransmitter release has prompted
the search for the Ca(2+) sensor. There is now general agreement that the
vesicle-associated Ca(2+)-binding protein, synaptotagmin I, is required for the
tight temporal coupling between Ca(2+) influx and synaptic vesicle fusion.
However, the precise mechanism of Ca(2+)-sensing by synaptotagmin I is still
under debate despite intensive investigation using genetic, biochemical and
electrophysiological tools. Here, we discuss many of the genetic manipulations
from the past few years that have shed light on the Ca(2+)-sensing function of
synaptotagmin I. We also present our view as to how the Ca(2+) signal is
translated rapidly into membrane fusion at fast chemical synapses.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00195-4 
PMID: 12900172  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1155. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):410-2.

Oligodendrocytes, GRPs and MNOPs.

Liu Y, Rao M.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00201-7 
PMID: 12900171  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1156. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):407-10.

'Unfolding' pathways in neurodegenerative disease.

Forman MS(1), Lee VM, Trojanowski JQ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research, Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 3600 Spruce Street, Maloney
Building, 3rd Floor, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. formanm@mail.med.upenn.edu

The endoplasmic reticulum responds to stress by initiating a cascade of events
known as the 'unfolded-protein response' (UPR). The accumulation of misfolded
proteins in the leukodystrophy Pelizaeus-Merzbacher disease activates this stress
response, resulting in apoptosis of oligodendrocytes. Although it remains
uncertain whether the UPR plays a mechanistic role in prototypical
neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, this is plausible
because misfolded proteins are directly implicated in the pathogenesis of these
disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00197-8 
PMID: 12900170  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1157. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):404-6.

Potential roles of insulin and IGF-1 in Alzheimer's disease.

Gasparini L(1), Xu H.

Author information: 
(1)Nicox Research Institute, Via Ariosto 21, 20091 Bresso, Milan, Italy.
gasparini@nicox.it

Aging is characterized by a significant decline of metabolic and hormonal
functions, which often facilitates the onset of severe age-associated
pathologies. One outstanding example of this is the reported association of
deranged signaling by insulin and insulin-like-growth-factor 1 (IGF-1) with
Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent compelling biological data reveal effects of
insulin and IGF-1 on molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying the pathology
of AD. This review discusses available biological data that highlight the
therapeutic potential of the insulin-IGF-1 signaling pathway in AD.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00163-2 
PMID: 12900169  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1158. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):402-4.

Alcohol and error processing.

Holroyd CB(1), Yeung N.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
cholroyd@princeton.edu

A recent study indicates that alcohol consumption reduces the amplitude of the
error-related negativity (ERN), a negative deflection in the electroencephalogram
associated with error commission. Here, we explore possible mechanisms underlying
this result in the context of two recent theories about the neural system that
produces the ERN - one based on principles of reinforcement learning and the
other based on response conflict monitoring.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00175-9 
PMID: 12900168  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1159. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):400-1.

Persistent activity and memory in the entorhinal cortex.

Frank LM(1), Brown EN.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Statistics Research Laboratory, Department of Anesthesia and
Critical Care, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA.
loren@phys.ucsf.edu

The entorhinal cortex (EC) is an essential component of the medial temporal lobe 
long-term-memory system. Recently, Egorov et al. demonstrated that neurons in
layer 5 of the EC show graded persistent activity: each neuron could maintain a
constant rate firing over several minutes, even in the absence of input from
other neurons. These findings suggest that layer-5 EC neurons could play a
central role in the formation of associations among stimuli that occur at
different times.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00176-0 
PMID: 12900167  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1160. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):397-400.

Does neurofilament phosphorylation regulate axonal transport?

Shea TB(1), Jung C, Pant HC.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cellular Neurobiology and Neurodegeneration Research, Departments
of Biological Sciences and Biochemistry, University of Massachusetts (Lowell),
One University Avenue, Lowell, MA 01854, USA. thomas_shea@uml.edu

Phosphorylation of neurofilaments has long been considered to regulate their
axonal transport rate and, in doing so, to provide stability to mature axons.
Interpretation of data recently obtained following C-terminal deletion
experiments has prompted a challenge to this hypothesis. We present evidence that
these deletion studies remain consistent with, rather than refute, a role for
C-terminal phosphorylation in regulation of neurofilament axonal transport.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00199-1 
PMID: 12900166  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1161. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):395-6.

Numb and Numblike control cell number during vertebrate neurogenesis.

Johnson JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Basic Neuroscience, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas, TX 75390-9111, USA. jane.johnson@utsouthwestern.edu

A fundamental problem in nervous system development is how to control
progenitor-cell divisions to generate the correct number of cells for the mature 
brain and spinal cord. A recent report by Petersen and colleagues has identified 
an essential role for Numb and a related protein, Numblike, in this process. This
study demonstrates that Numb and Numblike function to maintain the self-renewal
properties of neural progenitor cells in the vertebrate neural tube.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00166-8 
PMID: 12900165  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1162. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Aug;26(8):393-4.

Neural connections that compute.

Kenward M, Morris R, Tarassenko L.

The UK's Foresight Cognitive Systems Project brings together researchers in the
life sciences and physical sciences to see where they can learn from one another 
and to debate, and plan, the future of research in cognitive systems. The
project, a part of the UK government's Foresight initiative, sets out to identify
potential opportunities for the economy or society from new science and
technology. Through a series of research reviews, the project has created 'snap
shots' of research in cognitive systems. A major conference in Bristol in
September will consider series of research manifestos created by
interdisciplinary groups.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00202-9 
PMID: 12900164  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1163. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jul;26(7):386-92.

Modeling CNS neurodegeneration by overexpression of disease-causing proteins
using viral vectors.

Kirik D(1), Björklund A.

Author information: 
(1)Wallenberg Neuroscience Center, Department of Physiological Sciences, Lund
University, BMC A11, 22184 Lund, Sweden. deniz.kirik@mphy.lu.se

Defective handling of proteins is a central feature of major neurodegenerative
diseases. The discovery that neuronal dysfunction or degeneration can be caused
by mutations in single cellular proteins has given new opportunities to model the
underlying disease processes by genetic modification of cells in vitro or by
generation of transgenic animals carrying the disease-causing gene. Recent
developments in recombinant viral-vector technology have opened up an interesting
alternative possibility, based on direct gene transfer to selected subregions or 
subsets of neurons in the brain. Using the highly efficient adeno-associated
virus or lentivirus vectors, recent reports have shown that overexpression of
mutated human huntingtin or alpha-synuclein in neurons in the striatum or
substantia nigra induces progressive neuropathology and neurodegeneration,
similar to that seen in Huntington's and Parkinson's diseases. Targeted
overexpression of disease-causing genes by recombinant viral vectors provides a
new and highly flexible approach for in vivo modeling of neurodegenerative
diseases, not only in mice and rats but also in primates.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00164-4 
PMID: 12850435  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1164. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jul;26(7):379-85.

New directions in retinal research.

Taylor WR(1), Vaney DI.

Author information: 
(1)Neurological Sciences Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, 505 NW 
185th Avenue, Beaverton, OR 97006, USA. taylorw@ohsu.edu

Direction-selective retinal ganglion cells (DSGCs) respond to image motion in a
"preferred" direction but not the opposite "null" direction. Extracellular spike 
recordings from rabbit DSGCs suggested that the key mechanism underlying the
directional responses is spatially offset inhibition projecting in the null
direction. Recent patch-clamp recordings have shown that this inhibition, which
acts directly on the DSGC, is already direction selective. Dual recordings
established that the inhibition arises from starburst amacrine cells (SBACs)
located on the null side of the DSGC but not from those on the preferred side.
Thus, for each radially symmetric SBAC, processes pointing in different
directions would provide the null-direction inhibition to subtypes of DSGCs with 
different preferred directions. Ca2+ imaging revealed that the SBAC terminal
processes respond more strongly to image motion away from the soma than towards
the soma, therefore accounting for the direction selectivity of the inhibitory
input to the DSGCs.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00167-X 
PMID: 12850434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1165. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jul;26(7):369-78.

Molecular basis of plasticity in the visual cortex.

Berardi N(1), Pizzorusso T, Ratto GM, Maffei L.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurophysiology, Institute of Neuroscience, Pisa, Italy.

Sensory experience is known to shape the maturation of cortical circuits during
development. A paradigmatic example is the effect of monocular deprivation on
ocular dominance of visual cortical neurons. Although visual cortical plasticity 
has been widely studied since its initial discovery by Hubel and Wiesel >40 years
ago, the description of the underlying molecular mechanisms has lagged behind.
Several new findings are now beginning to close this gap. Recent data deepen our 
knowledge of the factors involved in the intercellular communication and
intracellular signaling that mediate experience-dependent plasticity in the
developing visual cortex. In addition, new findings suggest a role for the
extracellular matrix in inhibition of ocular-dominance plasticity in the adult
visual cortex.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00168-1 
PMID: 12850433  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1166. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jul;26(7):360-8.

Structure-stability-function relationships of dendritic spines.

Kasai H(1), Matsuzaki M, Noguchi J, Yasumatsu N, Nakahara H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Physiology, National Institute for Physiological Sciences
and The Graduate University for Advanced Studies (SOKENDAI), Okazaki 444-8585,
Japan. hkasai@nips.ac.jp

Dendritic spines, which receive most of the excitatory synaptic input in the
cerebral cortex, are heterogeneous with regard to their structure, stability and 
function. Spines with large heads are stable, express large numbers of AMPA-type 
glutamate receptors, and contribute to strong synaptic connections. By contrast, 
spines with small heads are motile and unstable and contribute to weak or silent 
synaptic connections. Their structure-stability-function relationships suggest
that large and small spines are "memory spines" and "learning spines",
respectively. Given that turnover of glutamate receptors is rapid, spine
structure and the underlying organization of the actin cytoskeleton are likely to
be major determinants of fast synaptic transmission and, therefore, are likely to
provide a physical basis for memory in cortical neuronal networks.
Characterization of supramolecular complexes responsible for synaptic memory and 
learning is key to the understanding of brain function and disease.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00162-0 
PMID: 12850432  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1167. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jul;26(7):351-9.

The stem-cell menagerie.

Pevny L(1), Rao MS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Neuroscience Center, University of North Carolina,
Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA. larysa_pevny@med.unc.edu

The numbers, types and locations of stem cells in the nervous system have been
the subject of much discussion. This review summarizes data on the types of stem 
cell present at different stages of development and in the adult brain, and the
markers suggested to distinguish between the various possibilities that have been
reported. We present evidence that more than one class of stem cell is present in
the developing and adult nervous systems, and that it might be possible to
distinguish between stem-cell populations and to localize the cell of origin of a
particular neurosphere, based on markers that persist in culture and by using
universal stem-cell markers prospectively to identify stem cells in vivo.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00169-3 
PMID: 12850431  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1168. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jul;26(7):347-50.

Sound localization and delay lines--do mammals fit the model?

McAlpine D(1), Grothe B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK.
d.mcalpine@ucl.ac.uk

The current dominant model of binaural sound localization proposes that the
lateral position of a sound source is determined by the position of maximal
activation within an array of binaural coincidence-detector neurons that are
tuned to different interaural time differences (ITDs). The tuning of a neuron for
an ITD is determined by the difference in axonal conduction delay from each
ear--the so-called "delay line" hypothesis. Although studies in birds appear to
support this model, recent evidence from mammals suggests that the model does not
provide accurate descriptions of how ITDs are encoded in the mammalian auditory
brainstem or of how ITD-sensitive neurons contribute to mammalian sound
localization.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00140-1 
PMID: 12850430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1169. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jul;26(7):345-6.

The rotenone model of Parkinson's disease.

Perier C, Bové J, Vila M, Przedborski S.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00144-9 
PMID: 12850429  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1170. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jul;26(7):340-4; author reply 344-5.

Astrocyte-mediated control of cerebral microcirculation.

Anderson CM(1), Nedergaard M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California-San Francisco, Department of
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, CA 94121, USA.

Comment on
    Nat Neurosci. 2003 Jan;6(1):43-50.

Characterization of astrocyte Ca2+ dynamics has been a topic of considerable
emphasis for more than a decade. Only recently, however, has the physiological
significance of astrocyte Ca2+ signaling started to become clear. Several studies
have shown that astrocyte Ca2+ levels become elevated in response to neuronal
input and that this, in turn, influences synaptic activity. A novel function of
astrocyte Ca2+ signaling has been described by Zonta et al., whereby
neuron-induced astrocyte Ca2+ elevations can lead to secretion of vasodilatory
substances from perivascular astrocyte endfeet, resulting in improved local blood
flow. This finding represents a breakthrough in our knowledge both of astrocyte
function and of the mechanism of activity-dependent cerebral blood flow
regulation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00141-3 
PMID: 12850427  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1171. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jul;26(7):337-9.

Prion protein trafficking and the development of neurodegeneration.

Hegde RS(1), Rane NS.

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology and Metabolism Branch, NICHD/National Institutes of Health,
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. hegder@mail.nih.gov

Comment on
    Science. 2002 Nov 29;298(5599):1785-8.
    Science. 2002 Nov 29;298(5599):1781-5.

The prion protein (PrP) is involved in causing a group of diverse transmissible, 
heritable and sporadically occurring neurodegenerative diseases. Although the
identity, nature and replication of the transmissible agent have been intensely
studied for decades, the cellular events underlying neuronal dysfunction and
death have received comparatively little attention. Recent studies examining the 
occurrence and consequences of inappropriate cytoplasmic expression of the
normally cell-surface PrP underscore an emerging role for PrP trafficking in
prion disease pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00143-7 
PMID: 12850426  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1172. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jul;26(7):335-7.

Molecular dissection of neuromuscular junction formation.

Hoch W(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Houston, Science and Research Building 2, Houston, TX
77204-5001, USA. whoch@uh.edu

Comment on
    EMBO J. 2000 Jan 4;19(1):67-77.

The muscle-specific kinase (MuSK) is the key component that mediates the
synapse-inducing role of motoneuron-derived agrin at the neuromuscular junction. 
Recent reverse-genetics approaches have shed new light on the events triggered
inside myotubes by activation of this kinase. Mice in which most of the
intracellular domain of MuSK is replaced by a related kinase are viable. Analysis
of the imperfect postsynaptic specializations of these mice has provided new
insights into the complex postsynaptic differentiation process.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00131-0 
PMID: 12850425  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1173. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jun;26(6):329-34.

Brain-machine interfaces: computational demands and clinical needs meet basic
neuroscience.

Mussa-Ivaldi FA(1), Miller LE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology Northwestern University Medical School and
Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago, 303 East Chicago Ave., Chicago, IL 60611,
USA. sandro@northwestern.edu

As long as 150 years ago, when Fritz and Hitzig demonstrated the electrical
excitability of the motor cortex, scientists and fiction writers were considering
the possibility of interfacing a machine with the human brain. Modern attempts
have been driven by concrete technological and clinical goals. The most advanced 
of these has brought the perception of sound to thousands of deaf individuals by 
means of electrodes implanted in the cochlea. Similar attempts are underway to
provide images to the visual cortex and to allow the brains of paralyzed patients
to re-establish control of the external environment via recording electrodes.
This review focuses on two challenges: (1) establishing a 'closed loop' between
sensory input and motor output and (2) controlling neural plasticity to achieve
the desired behavior of the brain-machine system. Meeting these challenges is the
key to extending the impact of the brain-machine interface.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00121-8 
PMID: 12798603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1174. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jun;26(6):321-8.

Changes in behavior-related neuronal activity in the striatum during learning.

Schultz W(1), Tremblay L, Hollerman JR.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiology, University of Fribourg, CH-1700 Fribourg,
Switzerland. ws234@cam.ac.uk

The involvement of the striatum in numerous forms of learning and memory is
likely to be based on changes in neuronal activity when specific behavioral tasks
are being learned. Striatal neurons show distinctive changes when animals learn
the significance of stimuli that predict rewards and induce the preparation of
movements. These changes resemble some of the simultaneous, learning-related
changes in closely associated areas of the frontal cortex. The striatal changes
might assist in adapting existing reward expectations and behaviors to novel or
changing environmental conditions and they could contribute to the functions of
the basal ganglia in learning, reward expectation and movement preparation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00122-X 
PMID: 12798602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1175. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jun;26(6):314-20.

Strange vision: ganglion cells as circadian photoreceptors.

Berson DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, USA.
david_berson@brown.edu

A novel photoreceptor of the mammalian retina has recently been discovered and
characterized. The novel cells differ radically from the classical rod and cone
photoreceptors. They use a unique photopigment, most probably melanopsin. They
have lower sensitivity and spatiotemporal resolution than rods or cones and they 
seem specialized to encode ambient light intensity. Most surprisingly, they are
ganglion cells and, thus, communicate directly with the brain. These
intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells (ipRGCs) help to synchronize 
circadian rhythms with the solar day. They also contribute to the pupillary light
reflex and other behavioral and physiological responses to environmental
illumination.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00130-9 
PMID: 12798601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1176. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jun;26(6):308-13.

Leaning to the left: laterality in the zebrafish forebrain.

Halpern ME(1), Liang JO, Gamse JT.

Author information: 
(1)Carnegie Institution of Washington, Department of Embryology, 115 West
University Parkway, Baltimore, MD 21210, USA. halpern@ciwemb.edu

How the brain becomes lateralized is poorly understood. By contrast, much is
known about molecular cues that specify the left-right axis of the body,
fashioning the asymmetric morphology and positioning of the visceral organs. In
zebrafish, the Nodal signaling pathway functions in visceral asymmetry and also
in the embryonic brain, to bias laterality of the epithalamus. Formation of an
asymmetric pineal complex differentially influences adjacent diencephalic nuclei,
the left and right habenulae, which acquire distinctive molecular and cellular
features. Results from the genetically tractable zebrafish system provide a
promising entry point for exploring how left-right biases are established and
propagated in the developing vertebrate brain.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00129-2 
PMID: 12798600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1177. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jun;26(6):303-7.

A new view of pain as a homeostatic emotion.

Craig AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Atkinson Pain Research Laboratory, Barrow Neurological Institute, 350 West
Thomas Road, Phoenix, AZ 85013, USA. bcraig@chw.edu

Pain is conventionally viewed as a pattern of convergent activity within the
somatosensory system that represents the exteroceptive sense of touch.
Accumulating functional, anatomical and imaging findings indicate that pain is
generated by specific sensory channels that ascend in a central homeostatic
afferent pathway. Phylogenetically new thalamocortical projections in primates
provide a sensory image of the physiological condition of the body and, in
addition, direct activation of limbic motor cortex. These findings indicate that 
the human feeling of pain is both a distinct sensation and a motivation - that
is, a specific emotion that reflects homeostatic behavioral drive, similar to
temperature, itch, hunger and thirst.


PMID: 12798599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1178. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jun;26(6):297-302.

Protective autoimmunity against the enemy within: fighting glutamate toxicity.

Schwartz M(1), Shaked I, Fisher J, Mizrahi T, Schori H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, 76100, Rehovot,
Israel. michal.schwartz@weizmann.ac.il

Glutamate, a key neurotransmitter, is pivotal to CNS function. Alterations in its
concentration can be dangerous, as seen for example in acute injuries of the CNS,
chronic neurodegenerative disorders and mental disorders. Its homeostasis is
attributed to the efficient removal of glutamate from the extracellular milieu by
reuptake via local transport mechanisms. Our recent studies suggest that
glutamate, either directly or indirectly, elicits a purposeful systemic
T-cell-mediated immune response directed against immunodominant self-antigens
that reside at the site of glutamate-induced damage. We suggest that the
harnessed autoimmunity (which we have termed 'protective autoimmunity') helps the
resident microglia in their dual function as antigen-presenting cells (serving
the immune system) and as cells that clear the damaged site of potentially
harmful material (serving the nervous system). The interplay between glutamate
and an adaptive immune response illustrates the bidirectional dialog between the 
immune and nervous systems, under both physiological and pathological conditions.
These results point to the possible development of a therapeutic vaccination with
self-antigens, or with antigens cross-reactive with self-antigens, as a way to
augment autoimmunity without inducing an autoimmune disease, thus providing a
safe method of limiting degeneration. This approach, which boosts a physiological
mechanism for the regulation of glutamate, and possibly also that of other
self-compounds, might prove to be a feasible strategy for therapeutic protection 
against glutamate-associated neurodegenerative or mental disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00126-7 
PMID: 12798598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1179. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jun;26(6):292-6.

Blood on the tracks: a simple twist of fate?

Meletis K(1), Frisén J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Medical Nobel Institute, Karolinska 
Institute, SE-171 77, Stockholm, Sweden.

Recent studies suggest that non-neural cells can generate neurons in mice and
humans. There is no lack of excitement about these results: they challenge our
view of cellular differentiation and the prospect of being able to generate
neurons from, for example, blood is very attractive. But is it too good to be
true?

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00125-5 
PMID: 12798597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1180. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jun;26(6):289-91; discussion 287-9.

Binocular rivalry and perceptual multi-stability.

Rubin N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, 4 Washington Place, New York, 
NY 10003-6621, USA. nava@cns.nyu.edu

When different images are presented to the two eyes, binocular rivalry can occur 
- that is, perceptual alternations between the two monocular images
(bi-stability) or between more than two percepts comprised of complementary
portions of the two images (multi-stability). A recent paper reports important
findings about the dynamics of multi-stable alternations in binocular rivalry.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00128-0 
PMID: 12798596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1181. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jun;26(6):285-7.

A memory GAP.

Settleman J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and Harvard Medical School,
Charlestown, MA 02129, USA. settleman@helix.mgh.harvard.edu

Pavlovian conditioning of the response to fear has provided an important model
for memory formation in mammals. Several studies have begun to identify the key
signal-transduction components that provide the molecular basis for this complex 
neural process. A recent report has revealed that the Rho GTPase and its
regulator p190 Rho-GTPase-activating protein (p190 RhoGAP) also play an important
regulatory role in fear memory formation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00103-6 
PMID: 12798594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1182. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jun;26(6):283-5.

Growth factors: can they promote neurogenesis?

Ferguson KL(1), Slack RS.

Author information: 
(1)Ottawa Health Research Institute, University of Ottawa, 451 Smyth Road, K1H
8M5, Ottawa, ON, Canada.

Cortical development is a complex process in which extrinsic and intrinsic
factors modulate the sequential generation of neurons and glia. Following
successive rounds of division, precursors become determined along a neuronal or
glial lineage prior to cell cycle exit and differentiation. Although the
influence of growth factors in cell fate specification is not new, until recently
little was known about the signaling pathways by which they regulate neuronal
differentiation. Menard and colleagues have examined this issue and have
demonstrated a role for the MEK-C/EBP (mitogen-activated-protein-kinase kinase
and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein) pathway in the promotion of growth
factor-mediated neurogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00100-0 
PMID: 12798593  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1183. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):277-82.

Shedding light on brain mapping: advances in human optical imaging.

Pouratian N(1), Sheth SA, Martin NA, Toga AW.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuro Imaging, Department of Neurology, David Geffen School of
Medicine at UCLA, 710 Westwood Plaza Room 4238, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1769, USA.

Several functional brain imaging techniques have been used to study human
cortical organization. Optical imaging of intrinsic signals (OIS) offers perhaps 
the best combination of spatial coverage, resolution and speed for mapping the
functional topography of human cortex. In this review, we discuss recent advances
in optical imaging technology and methodology that have made human OIS easier to 
implement and more accessible, including improvements in detector characteristics
and the development of sophisticated algorithms for reducing motion artifact.
Moreover, we discuss how these advances have helped enhance our understanding of 
the functional organization of the human brain. We also review newly developed
analyses for interpreting and validating optical signals, including refined
signal analysis techniques and multimodality comparisons. Combined, these
advances have enabled the study of not only primary sensory and motor cortices,
but also higher cognitive processes such as language production and
comprehension. Continued improvement and implementation of this technique
promises to shed new light on the functional organization of human cortex.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00070-5 
PMID: 12744845  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1184. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):269-76.

Sophisticated spinal contributions to motor control.

Poppele R(1), Bosco G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455,
USA. dick@umn.edu

The neural circuitry of the spinal cord is capable of solving some of the most
complex problems in motor control. Therefore, spinal mechanisms are much more
sophisticated than many neuroscientists give them credit for. A key issue in
motor control is how sensory inputs direct and inform motor output,--that is, the
sensorimotor process. Other major issues involve the actual control of the motor 
apparatus. In general, there are at least three basic requirements for motor
control: the transformations that map information from sensory to motor
coordinates, the specification of individual muscle activations to achieve a
kinematic goal, and the control of multiple degrees of freedom. Here, we make the
case that the vertebrate spinal cord has the capacity to solve each of these
problems to a degree that is relevant for normal behavior.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00073-0 
PMID: 12744844  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1185. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):262-8.

Genetic control of dendritic morphogenesis in Drosophila.

Gao FB(1), Bogert BA.

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease, Neuroscience Graduate Program,
University of California, San Francisco, CA 94141-9100, USA.
fgao@gladstone.ucsf.edu

How the dendritic branching patterns of different neurons are specified is a
fascinating question in developmental neurobiology. This question can now be
addressed in detail in Drosophila, owing to technological advances that allow in 
vivo labeling of the dendrites of identifiable neurons. Recent genetic analyses
in flies have uncovered several molecules, including transcription factors,
cytoskeleton-associated proteins and membrane receptor-like molecules, that
provide a glimpse into the complex regulatory network that controls dendritic
morphogenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00078-X 
PMID: 12744843  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1186. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):255-61.

Talking back: dendritic neurotransmitter release.

Ludwig M(1), Pittman QJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biomedical Sciences, University of Edinburgh Medical School,
George Square, Edinburgh EH8 9XD, UK. mike.ludwig@ed.ac.uk

Classical transmitters and neuropeptides can be released from the dendrites of
many neuronal populations, to act as retrograde signals that modulate synaptic
transmission, electrical activity and, in some cases, morphology of the cell of
origin. For the hypothalamic neuroendocrine cells that release vasopressin and
oxytocin, the stimuli, mechanisms and physiological functions of dendritic
release have been revealed in detail that is not yet available for other neurons.
The regulation of dendritic transmitter release is complex and at least partially
independent from axon terminal release. Here, we provide an overview of recent
findings on the mechanisms and physiological consequences of dendritic
neuropeptide release and place this in the context of discoveries of dendritic
neurotransmitter release in other brain regions.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00072-9 
PMID: 12744842  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1187. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):248-54.

Ischemic tolerance and endogenous neuroprotection.

Dirnagl U(1), Simon RP, Hallenbeck JM.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Neurology, Charite Hospital, Humboldt University, 10098 Berlin,
Germany. ulrich.dirnagl@charite.de

Practically any stimulus capable of causing injury to a tissue or organ can, when
applied close to (but below) the threshold of damage, activate endogenous
protective mechanisms--thus potentially lessening the impact of subsequent, more 
severe stimuli. A sub-threshold ischemic insult applied to the brain, for
example, activates certain cellular pathways that can help to reduce damage
caused by subsequent ischemic episodes--a phenomenon known as 'ischemic
preconditioning' (IP) or 'ischemic tolerance' (IT). Although investigated for
some time in model organisms, IP/IT has recently been shown in human brain. This 
opens a window into endogenous neuroprotection and, potentially, a window of
opportunity to utilize these mechanisms in the clinic to treat patients with
stroke and other CNS disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00071-7 
PMID: 12744841  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1188. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):243-7.

The fundamental role of memory in olfactory perception.

Wilson DA(1), Stevenson RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK 73019, USA.
rstevens@psy.mq.edu.au

Current emphasis on odorant physiochemical features as the basis for perception
largely ignores the synthetic and experience-dependent nature of olfaction.
Olfaction is synthetic, as mammals have only limited ability to identify elements
within even simple odor mixtures. Furthermore, olfaction is experience-bound, as 
exposure alone can significantly affect the extent to which stimuli can be
discriminated. We propose that early analytical processing of odors is
inaccessible at the behavioral level and that all odors are initially encoded as 
'objects' in the piriform cortex. Moreover, we suggest that odor perception is
wholly dependent on the integrity of this memory system and that its loss
severely impairs normal perception.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00076-6 
PMID: 12744840  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1189. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):241-2.

PerleCan fix your muscle AChEs.

Steen MS(1), Froehner SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA
98195, USA.

Efficient and accurate synaptic transmission requires proper localization of
numerous signaling proteins in the synaptic membrane. At the neuromuscular
junction, the nicotinic ACh receptor mediates postsynaptic depolarization, and
acetylcholinesterase (AChE) terminates this process by hydrolyzing ACh. The
mechanism by which the nerve directs receptor localization is understood in
considerable detail; AChE clustering, by contrast, has received much less
attention. Now, in a recent paper in Nature Neuroscience, the laboratories of
Yoshiko Yamada and Richard Rotundo report that AChE clustering at the
postsynaptic membrane requires perlecan, which binds both AChE and dystroglycan.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00077-8 
PMID: 12744839  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1190. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):237-40.

Pursuit neurons encode 3D space: is the cortex nervous and tensor?

Duffy CJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, The University of Rochester Medical Center,
Rochester, NY 14642, USA. cjd@cvs.rochester.edu

Fukushima and colleagues have found single neurons in monkey frontal cortex that 
control pursuit eye movements by representing extra-personal space in a
3D-coordinate frame. These cells might link the 2D depiction of visual space by
the retina with the need of the body to act in the 3D world. We could be on the
verge of a new understanding of coordinate transformations serving sensory-motor 
integration in cerebral cortex.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00069-9 
PMID: 12744838  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1191. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):235-7.

D1 and NMDA receptors hook up: expanding on an emerging theme.

Salter MW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Programme in Brain and Behaviour, Hospital for Sick Children, and Department
of Physiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada M5G 1X8.
mike.salter@utoronto.ca

In the dominant paradigm for functional interactions between G-protein-coupled
receptors (GPCRs) and ligand-gated ion channels, the mantra is that the
interactions are indirect, indirect, indirect. It is commonly understood that
activating GPCRs engages one or more sets of intracellular signaling cascades
that indirectly affect the function or localization of a cohort of ligand-gated
ion channels. Conversely, stimulating ligand-gated channels, particularly those
that are permeable to Ca(2+), indirectly produces effects on GPCRs and/or on
GPCR-activated signaling cascades. The foundation of this dichotomous world-view 
shook (just a little) when it was discovered that D5 dopamine receptors bind
directly to GABA(A) receptors, and that this direct interaction reciprocally
affects the signaling of both types of receptor. Now, D1 dopamine receptors also 
have got into the act!

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00081-X 
PMID: 12744837  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1192. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):232-4.

Neurotrophins in myelination: a new role for a puzzling receptor.

Notterpek L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, College of Medicine, McKnight Brain Institute of
the University of Florida, Box 100244, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA.
notterp@ufbi.ufl.edu

Binding of neurotrophins to p75(NTR) was recently identified as a positive signal
for myelination by Schwann cells. This new finding adds yet another distinct
biological role to the growing list of functions of p75(NTR) in the nervous
system and identifies a novel target for promoting remyelination in peripheral
neuropathies or post-nerve-injury.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00099-7 
PMID: 12744836  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1193. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):231-2.

Response: sound analysis in auditory cortex--from temporal decomposition to
perception.

Seifritz E(1), Esposito F, Neuhoff JG, Di Salle F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Basel, Wilhelm Kleinstr. 27, 4025
Basel, Switzerland. erich.seifritz@unibas.ch

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00075-4 
PMID: 12744835  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1194. Trends Neurosci. 2003 May;26(5):229-30.

Sound analysis in auditory cortex.

Zatorre RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, 3801 University Street,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3A 2B4. robert.zatorre@mcgill.ca

Not so long ago, the auditory cortex took a back seat to the visual system in
neuroscience research. With some notable exceptions outside the primate order,
such as the classic work on echo-locating bats, owls and birdsong, the auditory
cortex has been overlooked: only a few investigators were involved in
understanding the structure and function of the monkey auditory cortex, and even 
fewer had the means to study its human counterpart. This situation has undergone 
a dramatic change in the past decade or so. Spurred on by advances in primate
neurophysiology and neuroanatomy, and especially by developments in functional
neuroimaging, substantial progress is now being made into understanding how the
human auditory cortical system works.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00074-2 
PMID: 12744834  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1195. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):222-7.

What the cerebellum computes.

Ohyama T(1), Nores WL, Murphy M, Mauk MD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, W.M. Keck Center for the Neurobiology 
of Learning and Memory, University of Texas Medical School-Houston, 6431 Fannin, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA. tatsuya.ohyama@uth.tmc.edu

The brain is an organ that processes information. Brain systems such as the
cerebellum receive inputs from other systems and generate outputs according to
their internal rules of information processing. Thus, our understanding of the
cerebellum is ultimately best expressed in terms of the information processing it
accomplishes and how cerebellar neurons and synapses produce this processing. We 
review evidence that indicates how Pavlovian eyelid conditioning reveals
cerebellar processing to be an example of feedforward control. Eyelid
conditioning demonstrates a capacity for learning in the cerebellum that is error
driven, associative and temporally specific--as is required for feedforward
control. This computation-centered view is consistent with a variety of proposed 
functions of the cerebellum, including sensory-motor integration, motor
coordination, motor learning and timing. Moreover, feedforward processing could
be the common link between motor and non-motor functions of the cerebellum.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00054-7 
PMID: 12689774  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1196. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):215-21.

Presymptomatic compensation in Parkinson's disease is not dopamine-mediated.

Bezard E(1), Gross CE, Brotchie JM.

Author information: 
(1)Basal Gang, Laboratoire de Neurophysiologie, CNRS UMR 5543, Université Victor 
Segalen, 146 rue Léo Saignat, 33076 Bordeaux Cedex, France.
erwan.bezard@umr5543.u-bordeaux2.fr

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2004 Mar;27(3):125-7; author reply 127-8.

The symptoms of Parkinson's disease (PD) appear only after substantial
degeneration of the dopaminergic neuron system (e.g. an 80% depletion of striatal
dopamine)--that is, there is a substantive presymptomatic period of the disease. 
It is widely believed that dopamine-related compensatory mechanisms are
responsible for delaying the appearance of symptoms. Recent advances in
understanding the presymptomatic phase of PD have increased our understanding of 
these dopamine-related compensatory mechanisms and have highlighted the role of
non-dopamine-mediated mechanisms both within and outside the basal ganglia. This 
increased knowledge of plasticity within cortical-basal-ganglia-thalamocortical
circuitry as dopaminergic neuron degeneration progresses has implications for
understanding plasticity in neural circuits generally and, more specifically, for
developing novel therapeutics or presymptomatic diagnostics for PD.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00038-9 
PMID: 12689773  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1197. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):207-14.

The metallobiology of Alzheimer's disease.

Bush AI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Oxidation Biology, Genetics and Aging Research Unit,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Building 114, 16th Street, Charlestown, MA 02129,
USA. bush@helix.mgh.harvard.edu

The cause of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is closely related to the aggregation of a 
normal protein, beta-amyloid (Abeta), within the neocortex. Recently, evidence
has been gathered to suggest that Abeta precipitation and toxicity in AD are
caused by abnormal interactions with neocortical metal ions, especially Zn, Cu
and Fe. However, Abeta might also participate in normal metal-ion homeostasis. An
inevitable, age-dependent rise in brain Cu and Fe might hypermetallate the Abeta 
peptide, causing the catalysis of H(2)O(2) production that mediates the toxicity 
and auto-oxidation of Abeta. The greater incidence of AD in females could be due 
to greater constitutive activity of the synaptic Zn transporter ZnT3, and
attenuated binding of metal ions to the rodent homologue of Abeta might explain
why these animals are spared Alzheimer's pathology. Compounds that interdict
metal-ion binding to Abeta dissolve brain deposits in vitro and one such
compound, clioquinol, inhibits Abeta deposition in the Tg2576 mouse model for AD 
and could be useful clinically. These insights could also apply to other
degenerative disorders in which metal-ion-protein interactions have been
implicated.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00067-5 
PMID: 12689772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1198. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):199-206.

Cation-chloride co-transporters in neuronal communication, development and
trauma.

Payne JA(1), Rivera C, Voipio J, Kaila K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Human Physiology, School of Medicine, University of California, 
One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616, USA.

Electrical signaling in neurons is based on the operation of plasmalemmal ion
pumps and carriers that establish transmembrane ion gradients, and on the
operation of ion channels that generate current and voltage responses by
dissipating these gradients. Although both voltage- and ligand-gated channels are
being extensively studied, the central role of ion pumps and carriers is largely 
ignored in current neuroscience. Such an information gap is particularly evident 
with regard to neuronal Cl- regulation, despite its immense importance in the
generation of inhibitory synaptic responses by GABA- and glycine-gated anion
channels. The cation-chloride co-transporters (CCCs) have been identified as
important regulators of neuronal Cl- concentration, and recent work indicates
that CCCs play a key role in shaping GABA- and glycine-mediated signaling,
influencing not only fast cell-to-cell communication but also various aspects of 
neuronal development, plasticity and trauma.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00068-7 
PMID: 12689771  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1199. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):193-8.

The Nogo-66 receptor: focusing myelin inhibition of axon regeneration.

McGee AW(1), Strittmatter SM.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurology and Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine,
PO Box 208018, New Haven, CT 06520, USA. stephen.strittmatter@yale.edu

CNS myelin inhibits axonal outgrowth in vitro and is one of several obstacles to 
functional recovery following spinal cord injury. Central to our current
understanding of myelin-mediated inhibition are the membrane protein Nogo and the
Nogo-66 receptor (NgR). New findings implicate NgR as a point of convergence in
signal transduction for several myelin-associated inhibitors. Additional studies 
have identified a potential coreceptor for NgR as p75(NTR), and a
second-messenger pathway involving RhoA that inhibits neurite elongation.
Although these findings expand our understanding of the molecular determinants of
adult CNS axonal regrowth, the physiological roles of myelin-associated
inhibitors in the intact adult CNS remain ill-defined.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00062-6 
PMID: 12689770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1200. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):184-92.

It could be habit forming: drugs of abuse and striatal synaptic plasticity.

Gerdeman GL(1), Partridge JG, Lupica CR, Lovinger DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of Arizona Health Sciences Center,
Tucson, AZ 85724, USA. gerdeman@email.arizona.edu

Drug addiction can take control of the brain and behavior, activating behavioral 
patterns that are directed excessively and compulsively toward drug usage. Such
patterns often involve the development of repetitive and nearly automatic
behaviors that we call habits. The striatum, a subcortical brain region important
for proper motor function as well as for the formation of behavioral habits, is a
major target for drugs of abuse. Here, we review recent studies of long-term
synaptic plasticity in the striatum, emphasizing that drugs of abuse can exert
pronounced influences on these processes, both in the striatum and in the
dopaminergic midbrain. Synaptic plasticity in the ventral striatum appears to
play a prominent role in early stages of drug use, whereas dopamine- and
endocannabinoid-dependent synaptic plasticity in the dorsal striatum could
contribute to the formation of persistent drug-related habits when casual drug
use progresses towards compulsive drug use and addiction.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00065-1 
PMID: 12689769  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1201. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):181-2; author reply 182-3.

What role do GluR1 subunits play in drug abuse?

Stephens DN, Mead AN.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00080-8 
PMID: 12689767  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1202. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):178-81.

Two birds with one stone: a novel motif for ACh receptor assembly quality
control.

Mei L(1), Xiong WC.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurobiology, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University 
of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 35294, USA. lmei@nrc.uab.edu

Comment on
    Nat Neurosci. 2002 Oct;5(10):963-70.

Assembly of ACh receptors is under tight quality control. Only functional ACh
receptors are expressed on the cell surface; unassembled subunits are retained in
the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). In a recent elegant study, Wang and colleagues
have identified a novel motif in the M1 domain of the ACh-receptor subunit that
is responsible for ER retention and degradation of unassembled subunits. This
signal appears to play an important role in regulating surface trafficking of
functional ACh receptors.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00036-5 
PMID: 12689766  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1203. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):176-8.

Synaptic cell adhesion goes functional.

Missler M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum Physiologie und Pathophysiologie, Georg-August Universität, 37073
Göttingen, Germany. mmissle1@gwdg.de

Comment on
    Science. 2002 Aug 30;297(5586):1525-31.

A growing number of candidate genes has been implicated in linking the two sides 
of a synapse but definitive proof of a specific role for many of them is still
scarce. Exploiting the vast amount of sequence data, a novel family of homophilic
synaptic cell-adhesion molecules (SynCAMs) has now been identified in mice.
SynCAMs are evolutionarily related to invertebrate immunoglobulin-like
(Ig)-domain proteins and they promote the formation and differentiation of
functional synapses in vitro.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00066-3 
PMID: 12689765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1204. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):173-6.

Dopamine transport currents are promoted from curiosity to physiology.

Sulzer D(1), Galli A.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurology and Psychiatry, Columbia University, Department of
Neuroscience, New York State Psychiatric Institute, Black 305, 650W 168th Street,
New York, NY 10032, USA. ds43@columbia.edu

Comment on
    Nat Neurosci. 2002 Oct;5(10):971-8.

Midbrain dopaminergic neurons maintain low ongoing "tonic" activity interrupted
by high frequency bursts associated with behavioral reward. Dopamine released
during bursts feeds back onto D(2) autoreceptors that depress neuronal activity. 
New findings from Ingram and colleagues suggest that, by contrast, tonic activity
excites these neurons by activating an uncoupled Cl- conductance that is mediated
by the dopamine uptake transporter. This response extends the range of states
regulated by neurotransmitter feedback, and could contribute importantly to
understanding amphetamine action.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00063-8 
PMID: 12689764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1205. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):171-3.

The coupling of a trkB tyrosine residue to LTP.

Ernfors P(1), Bramham CR.

Author information: 
(1)Unit of Molecular Neurobiology, MBB, Karolinska Institute, S-171 77 Stockholm,
Sweden. patrik.ernfors@mbb.ki.se

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor, trkB, activate
cAMP-response-element-binding protein (CREB) and the transcription of genes that 
is crucial for long-term potentiation (LTP). Any of several signaling pathways
activated by trkB could be required for LTP. A recent study using mice carrying a
mutation in a specific tyrosine residue of trkB pinpoints a necessary role for
the phospholipase-Cgamma (PLCgamma) pathway in CREB activation and LTP
maintenance.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00064-X 
PMID: 12689763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1206. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Apr;26(4):169-70.

Putting smell on the map.

Vosshall LB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurogenetics and Behavior, The Rockefeller University, New
York, NY 10021-6399, USA. leslie@mail.rockefeller.edu

The vertebrate olfactory system must cope with a staggering developmental
problem: how to connect millions of olfactory neurons expressing different
odorant receptors to appropriate targets in the brain. Recent studies demonstrate
remarkable plasticity in integrating novel olfactory neurons into this circuitry.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00037-7 
PMID: 12689762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1207. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Mar;26(3):161-7.

Bursts as a unit of neural information: selective communication via resonance.

Izhikevich EM(1), Desai NS, Walcott EC, Hoppensteadt FC.

Author information: 
(1)The Neurosciences Institute, 10640 John Jay Hopkins Drive, San Diego, CA
92121, USA. eugene.izhikevich@nsi.edu

What is the functional significance of generating a burst of spikes, as opposed
to a single spike? A dominant point of view is that bursts are needed to increase
the reliability of communication between neurons. Here, we discuss the
alternative, but complementary, hypothesis: bursts with specific resonant
interspike frequencies are more likely to cause a postsynaptic cell to fire than 
are bursts with higher or lower frequencies. Such a frequency preference might
occur at the level of individual synapses because of the interplay between
short-term synaptic depression and facilitation, or at the postsynaptic cell
level because of subthreshold membrane potential oscillations and resonance. As a
result, the same burst could resonate for some synapses or cells and not resonate
for others, depending on their natural resonance frequencies. This observation
suggests that, in addition to increasing reliability of synaptic transmission,
bursts of action potentials might provide effective mechanisms for selective
communication between neurons.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00034-1 
PMID: 12591219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1208. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Mar;26(3):155-60.

Spine motility: a means towards an end?

Dunaevsky A(1), Mason CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, USA.
anna_dunaevsky@brown.edu

From the first glimpse of moving spines half a decade ago, the prevailing view
has been that spine contortions and wiggling, especially during development,
maximize encounters with presynaptic growth cones or synaptic boutons. Other new 
evidence has revealed that spines continue to be motile even after they settle on
a presynaptic partner and form a synapse. We present the evidence for each view, 
and discuss how spines with synapses could move relative to their apparently
stable presynaptic partners. Thus, spine motility might not simply be a means
towards an end of synapse formation, but could continue, albeit at a lower rate, 
during synapse turnover after development ends.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00028-6 
PMID: 12591218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1209. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Mar;26(3):147-54.

Role of dendritic synapse location in the control of action potential output.

Williams SR(1), Stuart GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, John Curtin School of Medical Research, Australian
National University, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia. srw@mrc-lamb.cam.ac.uk

How effective are synaptic inputs made at different dendritic sites in the
control of action potential output? Recent technical advances have allowed direct
observation of the amplitude and time course of excitatory synaptic inputs
generated at defined dendritic sites. These findings indicate that contrasting
mechanisms exist to enhance the impact of dendritic excitatory inputs to
pyramidal neurons of the neocortex and hippocampus. Furthermore, multiple sites
of synaptic integration have been revealed, suggesting that proximal and distal
inputs are likely to be integrated in different ways. Taken together, these data 
emphasize the cell- and input-specific strategies used by neurons to enhance the 
impact of dendritic inputs on action potential generation.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00035-3 
PMID: 12591217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1210. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Mar;26(3):137-46.

Folate and homocysteine metabolism in neural plasticity and neurodegenerative
disorders.

Mattson MP(1), Shea TB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging Gerontology Research 
Center, National Institutes of health, 5600 Nathan Shock Drive, Baltimore, MD
21224, USA. mattsonm@grc.nia.nih.gov

Folate is a cofactor in one-carbon metabolism, during which it promotes the
remethylation of homocysteine -- a cytotoxic sulfur-containing amino acid that
can induce DNA strand breakage, oxidative stress and apoptosis. Dietary folate is
required for normal development of the nervous system, playing important roles
regulating neurogenesis and programmed cell death. Recent epidemiological and
experimental studies have linked folate deficiency and resultant increased
homocysteine levels with several neurodegenerative conditions, including stroke, 
Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Moreover, genetic and clinical data 
suggest roles for folate and homocysteine in the pathogenesis of psychiatric
disorders. A better understanding of the roles of folate and homocysteine in
neuronal homeostasis throughout life is revealing novel approaches for preventing
and treating neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00032-8 
PMID: 12591216  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1211. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Mar;26(3):132-6.

In search of a better mouse test.

Wahlsten D(1), Rustay NR, Metten P, Crabbe JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Centre for Neuroscience, University of Alberta,
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada T6G 2E9. wahlsten@ualberta.ca

To elucidate pathways from specific genes to complex behaviors, assays of mouse
behavior need to be valid, reliable and replicable across laboratories.
Behavioral assays are proving to be as complex as the intricate cellular and
molecular pathways that are the main interest of many mouse users. There is no
perfect behavioral test, but we propose some aphorisms to stimulate discussion
that is necessary for continued progress in task development. For maximal
utility, a behavioral test should yield valid data for most of the commonly used 
inbred mouse strains. Tests of simple, ubiquitous behaviors usually yield
meaningful data for most mice, especially when based on automated scoring or on
simple physical measures that are likely to be replicable across laboratories.
Extreme test scores resulting from non-performance on a task can inflate the
apparent reliability of a test, and devious adaptations to a task can undermine
its validity. The optimal apparatus configuration for certain genetic or
pharmacological analyses might depend on the particular laboratory environment.
Despite our best efforts, the mice will continue to win some innings.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00033-X 
PMID: 12591215  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1212. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Mar;26(3):125-31.

Stem and progenitor cells: the premature desertion of rigorous definitions.

Seaberg RM(1), van der Kooy D.

Author information: 
(1)University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada M5S 1A8 ON. raewyn.seaberg@utoronto.ca

A current disturbing trend in stem cell biology is the abandonment of rigorous
definitions of stem and progenitor cells in favor of more ambiguous,
all-encompassing concepts. However, recent studies suggest that there are
consistent, functional differences in the biology of these two cell types.
Admittedly, it can be difficult to harmonize the in vivo and in vitro functional 
differences between stem and progenitor cells. Nonetheless, these distinctions
between cell types should be emphasized rather than ignored, as they can be used 
to test specific hypotheses in neural stem cell biology.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00031-6 
PMID: 12591214  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1213. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Mar;26(3):123-4.

When neurons form memories.

Fries P(1), Fernández G, Jensen O.

Author information: 
(1)F.C. Donders Centre for Cognitive Neuroimaging, Adelbertusplein 1, 6525 EK
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. pascal.fries@fcdonders.kun.nl

Although long-term memory is central among our cognitive functions, the search
for a direct neurophysiological correlate to it has proven difficult. The
formation of new memories depends on the hippocampus and adjacent cortex, but the
final storage is thought to be in a widely distributed neocortical network.
Recent experiments, using simultaneous recordings from hundreds of sites in
monkey neocortex, have revealed the activation of such a distributed network --
probably reflecting the consolidation of long-term memory storage.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00023-7 
PMID: 12591213  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1214. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Mar;26(3):119-22.

Receptor tyrosine kinase transactivation: fine-tuning synaptic transmission.

Ferguson SS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Research Group, Robarts Research Institute, Department of
Physiology and Pharmacology, University of Western Ontario, 100 Perth Drive, PO
Box 5015, London, Ontario, Canada N6A 5K8. ferguson@robarts.ca

G-protein-coupled receptors generate signals that promote gene transcription
through the 'transactivation' of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) and activation 
of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade -- a process that involves
RTK autophosphorylation and endocytosis. Pioneering work now suggests that
D4-dopamine-receptor-mediated transactivation of the platelet-derived growth
factor beta receptor has immediate effects on synaptic neurotransmission via
Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation of NMDA receptors. The demonstration of a
physiological role for RTK transactivation in the CNS provides novel
opportunities for understanding how aberrant dopamine signalling might contribute
to cognitive and attention deficits associated with schizophrenia and
attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00022-5 
PMID: 12591212  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1215. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Mar;26(3):117-9.

Protein phosphatase 1 and memory: practice makes PP1 imperfect?

Waddell S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Massachusetts Medical School,
Worcester, MA 01605, USA. scott.waddell@umassmed.edu

Long-lasting memories are most efficiently formed by multiple training sessions
separated by appropriately timed intervals. A recent study revealed that
expression of a transgene encoding an inhibitor of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) in
the forebrain enhanced memory formed during sub-optimal training. Thus, PP1
apparently constrains memory formation in the mouse. Furthermore, the report
proposes that PP1 promotes forgetting.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00029-8 
PMID: 12591211  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1216. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Mar;26(3):115-7.

Auditory amplification: outer hair cells pres the issue.

Géléoc GS(1), Holt JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Virginia, PO Box 801392,
Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA.

Active feedback mechanisms in the ears of mammals amplify and tune the auditory
response to sound stimuli, allowing these organisms to enjoy both exquisite
sensitivity and sharp frequency selectivity. A requisite component of this
feedback pathway has recently been identified. Targeted deletion of pres, the
gene that encodes the novel membrane-bound motor protein prestin, has revealed a 
hundred-fold loss in hearing sensitivity suggesting that it might be part of the 
elusive cochlear amplifier.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(03)00030-4 
PMID: 12591210  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1217. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):108-14.

How accurate is magnetic resonance imaging of brain function?

Uğurbil K(1), Toth L, Kim DS.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Magnetic Resonance Research, University of Minnesota Medical
School, 2021 Sixth St SE, Minneapolis 55455, USA. kamil@cmrr.umn.edu

Since it was introduced a decade ago, functional magnetic resonance imaging
(fMRI) has come to dominate research on the human brain. However, fMRI maps are
based on secondary metabolic and hemodynamic events that follow neuronal
activity, and not on the electrical activity itself. Therefore, the
representation provided by fMRI cannot be assumed a priori to be exact. The
accuracy of these maps depends on the spatial extent of the metabolic and
hemodynamic changes induced by neuronal activity, and the role played by the
vasculature in converting these changes to signals detected by magnetic resonance
imaging. Significant progress has been made in both areas, suggesting that it is 
possible to obtain both spatially accurate and quantitative data on brain
function from magnetic resonance methodologies.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(02)00039-5 
PMID: 12536134  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1218. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):100-7.

The neuroanatomical and functional organization of speech perception.

Scott SK(1), Johnsrude IS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University College London, Gower Street, UK.
sophie.scott@ucl.ac.uk

A striking property of speech perception is its resilience in the face of
acoustic variability (among speech sounds produced by different speakers at
different times, for example). The robustness of speech perception might, in
part, result from multiple, complementary representations of the input, which
operate in both acoustic-phonetic feature-based and articulatory-gestural
domains. Recent studies of the anatomical and functional organization of the
non-human primate auditory cortical system point to multiple, parallel,
hierarchically organized processing pathways that involve the temporal, parietal 
and frontal cortices. Functional neuroimaging evidence indicates that a similar
organization might underlie speech perception in humans. These parallel,
hierarchical processing 'streams', both within and across hemispheres, might
operate on distinguishable, complementary types of representations and subserve
complementary types of processing. Two long-opposing views of speech perception
have posited a basis either in acoustic feature processing or in gestural motor
processing; the view put forward here might help reconcile these positions.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(02)00037-1 
PMID: 12536133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1219. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):90-9.

Bridging the gap between genes and behavior: recent advances in the
electrophysiological analysis of neural function in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Francis MM(1), Mellem JE, Maricq AV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City 84112, USA.

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has long been popular with researchers
interested in fundamental issues of neural development, sensory processing and
behavior. Recently, advances in applying electrophysiological techniques to C.
elegans have made this genetically tractable organism considerably more
attractive to neurobiologists studying the molecular mechanisms of synaptic
organization and function. The development of techniques that involve
voltage-clamp of specific neurons and muscles has allowed the coupling of genetic
perturbation techniques with electrophysiological analyses of nervous system
function. Recent studies combining these biophysical and genetic techniques have 
provided novel insights into the mechanisms of presynaptic neurotransmitter
release, postsynaptic responses to neurotransmitters and information processing
by neural circuits.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(02)00041-3 
PMID: 12536132  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1220. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):81-9.

The Yin and Yang of NMDA receptor signalling.

Hardingham GE(1), Bading H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Preclinical Veterinary Sciences, Royal School of Veterinary
Studies, Edinburgh University, Summerhall, UK. giles.h@ed.ac.uk

Ca(2+) entry through the NMDA subtype of glutamate receptors has the power to
determine whether neurons survive or die. Too much NMDA receptor activity is
harmful to neurons - but so is too little. Is it a case of too much or too little
Ca(2+) influx causing cell death or do other factors, such as receptor location
or receptor-associated proteins, play a role? Understanding the mechanisms behind
this dichotomous signalling is an important area of molecular neuroscience with
direct clinical implications.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(02)00040-1 
PMID: 12536131  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1221. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):73-80.

Traffic at the intersection of neurotrophic factor signaling and
neurodegeneration.

Salehi A(1), Delcroix JD, Mobley WC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University Medical
Center, 1201Welch Rd, MSLS Building, Stanford, CA 94305-5489, USA.
asalehi@stanford.edu

Advances in understanding the biology of neurotrophic factors and their signaling
pathways have provided important insights into the normal growth, differentiation
and maintenance of neurons. Stimulated by neuropathological observations and
genetic discoveries, studies in cell and animal models of neurodegenerative
disorders have begun to clarify pathogenetic mechanisms. We examine the
intersection of these research themes and identify several potential mechanisms
for linking failed neurotrophic factor signaling to neurodegeneration. Studies of
nerve growth factor signaling in a mouse model of Down syndrome encourage the
views that neuronal dysfunction and atrophy might be linked to failed
neurotrophic support and that additional studies focused on this possibility
would enhance our understanding of the mechanisms of neurodegenerative disorders 
and their treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(02)00038-3 
PMID: 12536130  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1222. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):65-72.

Memory traces unbound.

Nader K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3A 1B1.
nader@hebb.psych.mcgill.ca

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2003 Sep;26(9):465-6; author reply 466-8.

The idea that new memories are initially 'labile' and sensitive to disruption
before becoming permanently stored in the wiring of the brain has been dogma for 
>100 years. Recently, we have revisited the hypothesis that reactivation of a
consolidated memory can return it to a labile, sensitive state - in which it can 
be modified, strengthened, changed or even erased! The data generated from some
of the best-described paradigms in memory research, in conjunction with powerful 
neurobiological technologies, have provided striking support for a very dynamic
neurobiological basis of memory, which is beginning to overturn the old dogma.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(02)00042-5 
PMID: 12536129  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1223. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):61-4.

From synchrony to sparseness.

Theunissen FE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience Institute, University of California,
Berkeley, USA. fet@socrates.berkeley.edu

The neurons in the antennal lobe of the locust had been shown to encode the
identity of odorants using spatially distributed synchronized patterns of neural 
activity. Recent work describes how such neural patterns are detected. By using
non-linear membrane properties, one set of target neurons, the Kenyon cells of
the mushroom bodies, are able to act as coincidence detectors, sensitive to
synchronized activity. In addition, the specific circuitry between the antennal
lobe and the mushroom body refines the spatial-temporal selectivity of the Kenyon
cells. In this process, the neural representation of odor identity is transformed
from a dense spatial-temporal code into a sparse code.


PMID: 12536128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1224. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):59-61.

Multiple paths towards repair in multiple sclerosis.

Colman D(1), Lubetzki C, Reingold S.

Author information: 
(1)Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801 University Avenue, Montreal, PQ, Canada 
H3A 2B4.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory demyelinating disease of the CNS,
affecting approximately 1/1000 individuals in the Western world. Available
treatments limit CNS inflammation and strategies to repair damage in the CNS
offer the potential of recovery of both tissue and function. With further
fundamental knowledge developing, this area is ripe for 'translation' to clinical
application.


PMID: 12536127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1225. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):57-9.

Towards cracking the code: LIM protein complexes in the spinal cord.

Sockanathan S(1).

Author information: 
(1)WBSB Room 906, Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine,
725 North Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. ssockan1@bs.jhmi.edu

Combinatorial transcription codes are used widely in the developing nervous
system to specify the development of many distinct cell types. Although this
strategy maximizes the use of small numbers of proteins, the molecular basis for 
imposing specificity remains unclear. A recent study has addressed this question 
by demonstrating that the favoring of hexameric complexes of specific LIM
homeodomain proteins over tetramers could dictate the choice between motor neuron
versus interneuron fate.


PMID: 12536126  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1226. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):55-7.

Na+ channel Nav1.9: in search of a gating mechanism.

Delmas P(1), Coste B.

Author information: 
(1)Intégration des Informations Sensorielles, CNRS-UMR 6150, 31 Ch. J. Aiguier,
13402 Marseille cedex 20, France. delmas@irlnb.cnrs-mrs.fr

Voltage-gated Na(+) channels play key roles in generating and propagating action 
potentials. Their gating is believed to rely exclusively on changes in membrane
potential. However, recent data from Blum, Kafitz and Konnerth provide direct
evidence that the opening of Na(v)1.9, a member of the voltage-gated Na(+)
channel family, is mediated by ligand binding rather than by voltage. This is
arguably one of the most influential ideas brought to us in the history of the
Na(+) channel field.


PMID: 12536125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1227. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Feb;26(2):53-5.

CAMP and Ca2+ interplay: a matter of oscillation patterns.

Zaccolo M(1), Pozzan T.

Author information: 
(1)Dulbecco Telethon Institute, Venetian Institute of Molecular Medicine, Via
Orus 2, Padua, Italy. manuela.zaccolo@unipd.it

Ca(2+) and cAMP signalling pathways are tightly interconnected and the cellular
effects mediated by the two second messengers depend strictly on reciprocal
modulation. The signalling network that derives from such interplay holds the
potential for expanding the information content of the signal enormously and,
thus, can contribute substantially to the specificity and diversity of the
response. Recent work points to interdependent Ca(2+) and cAMP oscillation
patterns as a new paradigm for signal transduction.


PMID: 12536124  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1228. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):46-51.

Eph signaling: a structural view.

Himanen JP(1), Nikolov DB.

Author information: 
(1)Cellular Biochemistry and Biophysics Program, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021, USA.

Eph receptors, the largest subfamily of receptor tyrosine kinases, and their
ephrin ligands are important mediators of cell-cell communication regulating cell
attachment, shape and mobility. Both Ephs and ephrins are membrane-bound and
their interactions at sites of cell-cell contact initiate unique bidirectional
signaling cascades, with information transduced in both the receptor-expressing
and the ligand-expressing cells. Recent structural and biophysical studies
summarized in this review reveal unique molecular features not previously
observed in any other receptor-ligand families and explain many of the
biochemical and signaling properties of Ephs and ephrins. Of particular
importance is the insight into how approximation of ligand-expressing and
receptor-expressing cells could lead to the formation and activation of highly
ordered signaling centers at cell-cell interfaces.


PMID: 12495863  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1229. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):40-5.

Wnt-frizzled signaling in neural crest formation.

Wu J(1), Saint-Jeannet JP, Klein PS.

Author information: 
(1)Cell and Molecular Biology Graduate Group, School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.


PMID: 12495862  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1230. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):33-9.

Dissecting the circuitry of the auditory system.

Pollak GD(1), Burger RM, Klug A.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Neurobiology, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX 78712, 
USA. gpollak@mail.utexas.edu


PMID: 12495861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1231. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):27-32.

A common architecture for K+ channels and ionotropic glutamate receptors?

Kuner T(1), Seeburg PH, Guy HR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Physiology, Max-Planck-Institute for Medical Research,
Jahnstrasse 29, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany. kuner@mpimf-heidelberg.mpg.de


PMID: 12495860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1232. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):23-6.

Improbable areas in the visual brain.

Zeki S(1).

Author information: 
(1)University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK. zeki.pa@ucl.ac.uk


PMID: 12495859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1233. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):17-22.

Acupuncture: neuropeptide release produced by electrical stimulation of different
frequencies.

Han JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Institute, Peking University, 38 Xue Yuan Road, Beijing 
100083, China. hanjisheng@263.net


PMID: 12495858  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1234. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):14-6.

A prominent role for intrinsic neuronal properties in temporal coding.

Magee JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Center, Louisiana State University Health Science Center, 2020
Gravier Street, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA. jmagee@lsuhsc.edu


PMID: 12495857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1235. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):12-4.

Linking reward expectation to behavior in the basal ganglia.

Gold JI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Pennsylvania, 116 Johnson Pavilion, 
3610 Hamilton Walk, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6074, USA. jigold@mail.med.upenn.edu


PMID: 12495856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1236. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):9-11.

An activity-dependent spermine-mediated mechanism that modulates glutamate
transmission.

Pellegrini-Giampietro DE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Farmacologia Preclinica e Clinica, Università di Firenze,
Viale G. Pieraccini 6, 50139 Florence, Italy. dompel@pharm.unifi.it


PMID: 12495855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1237. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):7-9.

Drooling and stuttering, or do synapses whisper?

Jahr CE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science University, L474, 3181 S.W. Sam
Jackson Park Road, Portland, OR 97201-3098, USA. jahr@ohsu.edu


PMID: 12495854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1238. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):4-7.

Ubiquitin and synaptic dysfunction: ataxic mice highlight new common themes in
neurological disease.

Ehlers MD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurobiology, Cell Biology and Pharmacology, Duke University
Medical Center, Box 3209, Durham, NC 27710, USA. ehlers@neuro.duke.edu


PMID: 12495853  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1239. Trends Neurosci. 2003 Jan;26(1):2-4.

A tale of two C2 domains.

Pallanck L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genome Sciences, Box 357730, University of Washington, Seattle, 
WA 98195, USA. pallanck@gs.washington.edu


PMID: 12495852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1240. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Dec;25(12):644-5.

Complementary and alternative medicine in neurology: hype, hope and hazards.

Ernst E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Complementary Medicine, Peninsula Medical School, Universities of Exeter and
Plymouth, 25 Victoria Park Road, UK. edzard.ernst@pms.ac.uk

More and more neurological patients use some form of complementary and
alternative medicine. Contrary to what many sceptics believe, not all of these
approaches are useless. Contrary to what many proponents think, not all
treatments are harmless. Neurologists should know more about complementary and
alternative medicine and should advise their patients responsibly.


PMID: 12446133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1241. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Dec;25(12):638-43.

Putting neurons in the right places: local interactions in the genesis of retinal
architecture.

Galli-Resta L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Neuroscienze CNR, Via G Moruzzi 1 56100 Pisa, Italy.
galli@in.pi.cnr.it

Development of the nervous system can be schematically summarized as (1) making
the necessary cells, (2) putting these cells in the right places, and then (3)
connecting them appropriately. Each of these steps represents an enormous
challenge to our understanding. Focusing on the vertebrate retina, I will
consider the question of what defines the right place for a neuron to go. I will 
illustrate data pointing to the prominent role played by short-range cellular
interactions, possibly coordinated by global factors, and will discuss how a few 
sets of local rules could control cell positioning and proper wiring in retinal
circuits.


PMID: 12446132  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1242. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Dec;25(12):632-7.

Time after time: inputs to and outputs from the mammalian circadian oscillators.

Morse D(1), Sassone-Corsi P.

Author information: 
(1)Dept des Sciences Biologiques, Université de Montréal, 4101 Sherbrooke est,
Montréal Quebec, Canada H1X 2B2.

Oscillating levels of clock gene transcripts in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN)
are essential components of the mammalian circadian pacemaker. Their
synchronization with daily light cycles involves neural connections from
light-sensitive photoreceptor-containing retinal ganglion cells. This clock
orchestrates rhythmic expression for approximately 10% of the SCN gene
transcripts, of which only 10% are also rhythmically expressed in other tissues. 
Many of the transcripts expressed rhythmically only in the SCN are involved in
neurosecretion, and their secreted products could mediate SCN control over
physiological rhythms by coordinating rhythmicity in other nuclei within the
brain. The coordination of clock gene transcript oscillations in peripheral
tissues could be controlled directly by specific signals or indirectly by
rhythmic behavior such as feeding.


PMID: 12446131  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1243. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Dec;25(12):626-31.

Nitric oxide and autonomic control of heart rate: a question of specificity.

Paton JF(1), Kasparov S, Paterson DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, School of Medical Sciences, University of Bristol, UK.
julian.f.r.paton@bris.ac.uk

Despite its highly diffusible nature, the gaseous signalling molecule nitric
oxide (NO) can exert specific effects within the CNS and PNS. To date, the
specificity of the actions of NO remains an unsolved puzzle. There are several
plausible mechanisms that might account for this specificity in the context of
autonomic regulation of heart rate. NO acts at distinct levels within the
autonomic nervous system to control cardiac rate, with opposing effects at
different sites. We discuss factors that might contribute to this diversity of
action, and conclude that the isoform of enzyme involved in producing NO, the
spatial proximity of the NO source to the target, and differences in the
intracellular coupling within the target cell are all crucial for encoding the
functional action of NO.


PMID: 12446130  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1244. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Dec;25(12):621-5.

The neural basis of functional brain imaging signals.

Attwell D(1), Iadecola C.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, University College London, Gower Street, UK.
d.attwell@ucl.ac.uk

The haemodynamic responses to neural activity that underlie the
blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal used in functional magnetic resonance 
imaging (fMRI) of the brain are often assumed to be driven by energy use,
particularly in presynaptic terminals or glia. However, recent work has suggested
that most brain energy is used to power postsynaptic currents and action
potentials rather than presynaptic or glial activity and, furthermore, that
haemodynamic responses are driven by neurotransmitter-related signalling and not 
directly by the local energy needs of the brain. A firm understanding of the BOLD
response will require investigation to be focussed on the neural signalling
mechanisms controlling blood flow rather than on the locus of energy use.


PMID: 12446129  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1245. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Dec;25(12):616-20.

Alzheimer's and prion diseases: distinct pathologies, common proteolytic
denominators.

Checler F(1), Vincent B.

Author information: 
(1)IPMC du CNRS, UMR6097, 660 route des Lucioles, 06560 Valbonne, France.
checler@ipmc.cnrs.fr

Alzheimer's and prion pathologies are often seen as distinct neurodegenerative
diseases, particularly because the infectious character of some prion-associated 
pathology makes this stand apart from classical neurodegenerative, age-related
syndromes. Are there specific common denominators that could link the two
diseases? It appears that betaAPP (beta-amyloid precursor protein) and PrP(c)
(cellular prion protein), the 'guilty' proteins involved in these pathologies,
undergo protein-kinase-C-regulated proteolysis by identical proteases of the
disintegrin family. This cleavage occurs in an analogous way, in the middle of
the 'toxic' Abeta and PrP(c)106-126 domains of betaAPP and PrP(c), respectively. 
As these two sequences trigger similar caspase-dependent and -independent
cascades, this proteolytic attack could be seen as an inactivating process aimed 
at clearing cells of these endogenous 'toxins' and, thus, preventing the
associated proteinaceous accumulation usually detected in affected brains. It is 
our opinion that targeting these disintegrins with specific 'activators' could be
a suitable strategy to slow down, or even arrest, betaAPP and PrP(c)-related
aggregation and toxicity.


PMID: 12446128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1246. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Dec;25(12):610-5.

Elevated levels of GluR1 in the midbrain: a trigger for sensitization to drugs of
abuse?

Carlezon WA Jr(1), Nestler EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, and McLean Hospital, MRC 217, 115 
Mill Street, Belmont MA 02478, USA. carlezon@mclean.harvard.edu

In laboratory animals, repeated administration of drugs of abuse, such as
cocaine, morphine or alcohol, causes sensitization (reverse tolerance) to their
stimulant and rewarding effects. Neuroadaptations underlying sensitization could 
be related to those that contribute to addictive behaviors. An increased
understanding of the molecular mechanisms of sensitization could lead to improved
treatments for addiction. Here, we review evidence that the ability of drugs of
abuse to elevate levels of the GluR1 subunit of AMPA glutamate receptors in the
ventral tegmental area (VTA) of the midbrain is crucial for the development of
sensitization. Even transient increases in GluR1 levels within VTA neurons can
trigger complex cascades of other molecular adaptations in these neurons and,
within larger neural circuits, can cause enduring changes in the responses of the
brain to drugs of abuse. However, there is ongoing debate over whether elevated
levels of GluR1 in the VTA are a primary cause, or secondary effect, of the
neurobiological underpinnings of sensitization.


PMID: 12446127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1247. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Dec;25(12):603-5.

Proneural, prosensory, antiglial: the many faces of neurogenins.

Korzh V(1), Strähle U.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, 1 Research Link, National University 
of Singapore, Singapore 117604. vlad@imcb.nus.edu.sg

Previous reports have linked Neurogenin 1 with the general promotion of
neurogenesis and gliogenesis. A new study in zebrafish, supported by recent
findings in Drosophila, has now challenged this idea by demonstrating that the
activity of Neurogenin 1 is limited to activation of development of two classes
of sensory neurons.


PMID: 12446121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1248. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Dec;25(12):600-3.

TwoB or not twoB: differential transmission at glutamatergic mossy
fiber-interneuron synapses in the hippocampus.

Bischofberger J(1), Jonas P.

Author information: 
(1)Physiologisches Institut, Universität Freiburg, Hermann-Herder-Str. 7,
Germany.

Mossy fiber (MF) synapses are key stations for flow of information through the
hippocampal formation. A major component of the output of the MF system is
directed towards inhibitory interneurons. Recent studies have revealed that the
functional properties of MF-interneuron synapses differ substantially from those 
of MF-CA3 pyramidal neuron synapses. Mossy-fiber-interneuron synapses in the
stratum lucidum represent a continuum of functional subtypes, in which the
subunit composition of postsynaptic AMPA receptors and NMDA receptors appears to 
be regulated in a coordinated manner.


PMID: 12446120  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1249. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Dec;25(12):599-600.

Spike-timing-dependent synaptic plasticity - the long road towards understanding 
neuronal mechanisms of learning and memory.

Tsodyks M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, Brain Research, The Weizmann Institute of Science,
Rehovot 76100, Israel. misha@weizmann.ac.il

Depending on the precise temporal relationship between their spiking activities, 
connections between neurons could be modified in opposite directions. Although
the functional implications of this spike-timing-dependent plasticity are not
clear, several theoretical studies have indicated that it could underlie
important effects such as sequence learning, predictive learning and balancing
excitation and inhibition. To explore fully this novel form of synaptic
plasticity, it is crucial to understand how the modification builds up over the
consecutive spikes of presynaptic and postsynaptic neurons. In the absence of
solid data, many theorists assumed a linear summation model. However, recent
experiments specifically devised to study this issue have demonstrated that the
effects of the consecutive spikes on the overall modification steadily decline,
indicating strong non-linearities in the corresponding learning rules.


PMID: 12446119  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1250. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Dec;25(12):597-8.

A recipe for ridding synapses of the ubiquitous AMPA receptor.

Turrigiano GG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology MS 08, Brandeis University, 415 South Street, Waltham, MA
02454, USA. turrigiano@brandeis.edu

Getting AMPA receptors into and out of synapses represents an important mechanism
for changing synaptic strength, but the signals that target AMPA receptors for
removal from the synaptic membrane are incompletely understood. A recent study in
Ceanorhabditis elegans suggests that ubiquitination of AMPA receptors is one
important signal that targets these receptors for endocytosis.


PMID: 12446118  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1251. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Nov;25(11):591-4.

euroSCIENCE moves into sixth gear!

Morris RG(1), Moser E, Henderson C, di Luca M, Witter M, Freund T.

Author information: 
(1)Centre and Division of Neuroscience, College of Medicine and Veterinary
Medicine, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK. r.g.m.morris@ed.ac.uk

Neuroscientists across Europe have been busy finding or consolidating
partnerships, and sharpening their e-pencils, as they prepare for the next
tranche of research and technology development (RTD) funding to be coordinated by
the European Union. Entitled the Sixth Framework Programme, this 16 billion Euro 
programme is the most ambitious that the European Commission has ever mounted. It
covers a broad range of RTD activities, from the very small (nanotechnology and
nanosciences) to the very grand (sustainable development, global change and
ecosystems). Brain research finds its place at several points in the proposals of
the Commission, notably under the heading of "Life Sciences, Genomics and
Biotechnology for Health". This includes sub-sections entitled "Studying the
brain and combating diseases of the nervous system" and "Studying development and
ageing processes". The focus is likely to be on exploiting molecular genetics
with respect to neuroscience. Our aim in this short article is to outline some of
the novel features of this ambitious program and to touch on certain issues that 
have been raised about it.


PMID: 12392935  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1252. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Nov;25(11):589-91.

Santiago Ramón y Cajal's concept of neuronal plasticity: the ambiguity lives on.

Stahnisch FW(1), Nitsch R.

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich-Alexander-University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Institute for History of
Medicine and Medical Ethics, 91054 Erlangen, Germany.

Parallel to his well-known work on the microarchitecture of the CNS, Santiago
Ramón y Cajal conducted various investigations of its de- and regenerative
capacities. However, Ramón y Cajal's theoretical stance on the issue remains
rather ambiguous and can even be assumed to reflect modern views on the potential
of structural plasticity in the CNS.


PMID: 12392934  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1253. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Nov;25(11):578-88.

Regulation of AMPA receptors during synaptic plasticity.

Song I(1), Huganir RL.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, 904A PCTB, 725 N. Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD
21205, USA.

Ionotropic neurotransmitter receptors mediate rapid synaptic transmission in the 
CNS and PNS. Owing to this central role in trans-synaptic signal transduction,
modulation of these receptors could play a crucial role in the expression of
synaptic plasticity in the brain. AMPA receptors mediate the majority of rapid
excitatory synaptic transmission in the CNS. Recent studies have indicated that
the activity and synaptic distribution of these receptors is dynamically
regulated and could be crucial for the short- and long-term modification of
synaptic efficacy. Here we review recent data on the molecular mechanisms that
underlie the modulation of AMPA receptors and the role of AMPA-receptor
regulation in mediating synaptic plasticity.


PMID: 12392933  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1254. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Nov;25(11):571-7.

NMDA-receptor trafficking and targeting: implications for synaptic transmission
and plasticity.

Carroll RC(1), Zukin RS.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park
Avenue, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

Dynamic regulation of synaptic efficacy is thought to play a crucial role in
formation of neuronal connections and in experience-dependent modification of
neural circuitry. The molecular and cellular mechanisms by which synaptic changes
are triggered and expressed are the focus of intense interest. This articles
reviews recent evidence that NMDA receptors undergo dynamically regulated
targeting and trafficking, and that the physical transport of NMDA receptors in
and out of the synaptic membrane contributes to several forms of long-lasting
synaptic plasticity. The identification of targeting and internalization
sequences in NMDA-receptor subunits has begun the unraveling of some mechanisms
that underlie activity-dependent redistribution of NMDA receptors. Given that
NMDA receptors are widely expressed throughout the CNS, regulation of
NMDA-receptor trafficking provides a potentially important way to modulate
efficacy of synaptic transmission.


PMID: 12392932  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1255. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Nov;25(11):564-70.

Long-term plasticity at GABAergic and glycinergic synapses: mechanisms and
functional significance.

Gaiarsa JL(1), Caillard O, Ben-Ari Y.

Author information: 
(1)INMED/INSERM U29, Avenue de Luminy, B.P. 13, 13273 Marseille cedex 09, France.
gaiarsa@inmed.univ-mrs.fr

Activity-dependent long-term changes in synaptic efficacy are thought to be
important in learning, memory formation, neuronal development and pathological
states of neuronal excitability in the CNS. For the past two decades, numerous
studies have investigated long-term changes in synaptic efficacy at excitatory
glutamatergic synapses. Although inhibitory synapses are essential for proper
functioning of the neuronal network, attention has focused only recently on
describing and characterizing plasticity at these types of synapse. Not
surprisingly, different forms of plasticity at GABAergic, and the closely related
glycinergic, synapses have been reported in several regions of the brain. Here we
review these different forms of plasticity and focus on their possible roles in
developing and adult neuronal networks.


PMID: 12392931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1256. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Nov;25(11):558-63.

Playing the devil's advocate: is the Hodgkin-Huxley model useful?

Meunier C(1), Segev I.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurophysique et Physiologie du Système moteur (UMR 8119 CNRS),
Université René Descartes, 75270 Paris cedex 06, France.

Hodgkin and Huxley (H-H) model for action potential generation has held firm for 
half a century because this relatively simple and experimentally testable model
embodies the major features of membrane nonlinearity: namely, voltage-dependent
ionic currents that activate and inactivate in time. However, experimental and
theoretical developments of the past 20 years force one to re-evaluate its
usefulness. First, the H-H model is, in its original form, limited to the two
voltage-dependent currents found in the squid giant axon and it must be extended 
significantly if it is to deal with the excitable soma and dendrites of neurons. 
Second, the macroscopic and deterministic H-H model does not capture correctly
the kinetics of the Na(+) channel and it cannot account for the stochastic
response to current injection that arises from the discrete nature of ion
channels. Third, much simpler integrate-and-fire-type models seem to be more
useful for exploring collective phenomena in neuronal networks. Is the H-H model 
threatened, or will it continue to set the fundamental framework for exploring
neuronal excitability?


PMID: 12392930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1257. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Nov;25(11):553-8.

From overshoot to voltage clamp.

Huxley A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Trinity College, Cambridge CB3 9NG, UK.

In 1939, A.L. Hodgkin and I found that the nerve action potential shows an
"overshoot"--that is, the interior of the fibre becomes electrically positive
during an action potential. In 1948, we did our first experiments with a voltage 
clamp to investigate the current-voltage relations of the nerve membrane. Between
those dates, we spent much time speculating about the mechanism by which ions
cross the membrane and how the action potential is generated. This article
summarizes these speculations, none of which has been previously published.


PMID: 12392929  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1258. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Nov;25(11):552-3.

Fifty years of the Hodgkin-Huxley era.

Piccolino M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology and Center of Neurosciences, University of Ferrara, Via
Borsari 46, 44100 Ferrara, Italy. marco.piccolino@unife.it

Modern neuroscientists are accustomed to the detailed information on the
structure and function of membrane ion channels that can be obtained by the
combination of molecular biology, crystallography and patch-clamp recordings. It 
can be difficult for us to appreciate how hard it was for humankind to realize
that physical events underlie nervous function and, moreover, to appreciate how
long it took to devise a realistic model for the generation and propagation of
the nerve impulse.


PMID: 12392928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1259. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Nov;25(11):546-7.

Cytokines and the ageing brain.

Cunningham C(1), Konsman JP, Cartmell T.

Author information: 
(1)CNS Inflammation Group, University of Southampton, Bassett Crescent East, SO16
7PX, UK. c.cunningham@soton.ac.uk

"Cytokines and the ageing brain". Held in Palais de Congres, Arcachon, France on 
1-3 June 2002.


PMID: 12392922  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1260. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Nov;25(11):544-6.

How the lateral line gets its glia.

Chien CB(1), Piotrowski T.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology and Anatomy, University of Utah Medical Center, 20 North 
1900 East, Salt Lake City, UT 84132, USA. chi-bin.chien@hsc.utah.edu

During development, the numbers and positions of neurons and glial cells must
become precisely matched. A recent study has addressed how the zebrafish lateral 
line nerve matches up with its glia. Using elegant two-color time-lapse imaging, 
the authors showed that migrating glia track along the axons precisely and very
closely. Combined genetic and embryonic perturbations showed that glia require
axons for migration, but not vice versa; however, glia are later required for
proper maintenance of axonal fasciculation.


PMID: 12392921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1261. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Nov;25(11):541-3; discussion 543-4.

Use-dependent inhibition of dendritic spines.

Keller A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine,
685 W. Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA.

Dendritic spines are now known to be subject to use-dependent plasticity that
affects both their structure and their numbers. Recently, it has been
demonstrated that a use-dependent increase in the density of dendritic spines
occurs in both excitatory and inhibitory synapses in the mouse barrel cortex.
Furthermore, it has been shown that although this increase in the density of
spines and excitatory synapses is transient, the increase in spinous inhibitory
synapses is long-lasting. These findings lend further support to the hypothesis
that synapses in the mature cortex are subject to continual use-dependent
plasticity.


PMCID: PMC2813855
PMID: 12392919  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1262. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Oct;25(10):532-7.

Axon pathology in neurological disease: a neglected therapeutic target.

Coleman MP(1), Perry VH.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Medicine (ZMMK) and Institute for Genetics, University of
Cologne, Zuelpicher Strasse 47, Germany. Michael.Coleman@uni-koeln.de

In the C57BL/Wld(S) mouse, a dominant mutation dramatically delays Wallerian
degeneration in injury and disease, possibly by influencing multi-ubiquitination.
Studies on this mouse show that axons and synapses degenerate by active and
regulated mechanisms that are akin to apoptosis. Axon loss contributes to
neurological symptoms in disorders as diverse as multiple sclerosis, stroke,
traumatic brain and spinal cord injury, peripheral neuropathies and chronic
neurodegenerative diseases, but it has been largely neglected in neuroprotective 
strategies. Defects in axonal transport, myelination or oxygenation could trigger
such mechanisms of active axon degeneration. Understanding how these diverse
insults might initiate an axon-degeneration process could lead to new therapeutic
interventions.


PMID: 12220882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1263. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Oct;25(10):525-31.

Move to the rhythm: oscillations in the subthalamic nucleus-external globus
pallidus network.

Bevan MD(1), Magill PJ, Terman D, Bolam JP, Wilson CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Tennessee, Memphis 38163, USA.
mbevan@utmem.edu

Recent anatomical, physiological and computer modeling studies have revealed that
oscillatory processes at the levels of single neurons and neuronal networks in
the subthalamic nucleus (STN) and external globus pallidus (GPe) are associated
with the operation of the basal ganglia in health and in Parkinson's disease
(PD). Autonomous oscillation of STN and GPe neurons underlies tonic activity and 
is important for synaptic integration, whereas abnormal low-frequency rhythmic
bursting in the STN and GPe is characteristic of PD. These recent findings
provide further support for the view that the basal ganglia use both the pattern 
and the rate of neuronal activity to encode information.


PMID: 12220881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1264. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Oct;25(10):518-24.

Stressed-out, or in (utero)?

Avishai-Eliner S(1), Brunson KL, Sandman CA, Baram TZ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of California at Irvine, 92697,
USA.

The molecular and cellular mechanisms by which plasticity is induced in the
mature CNS (and, specifically, in the hippocampus) by environmental input are
progressively being elucidated. However, the mechanisms - and even the existence 
- of functional and structural effects of environmental input (and, particularly,
stress) early in life are incompletely understood. Here, we discuss recent
evidence that stressful stimuli have a significant impact on neonatal (rat) and
prenatal (human) hippocampal function and integrity. Stressful signals provoke
expression and release of neuromodulators, including the peptide
corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), leading to activation of CRH receptors on 
principal hippocampal neurons. Although physiological activation of these
receptors promotes synaptic efficacy, pathological levels of CRH at hippocampal
synapses contribute to neuronal death. Thus, early-life stress could constitute a
'double-edged sword': mild stress might promote hippocampal-dependent cognitive
function, whereas severe stress might impair neuronal function and survival, both
immediately and in the long-term. Importantly, these CRH-mediated processes could
be targets of preventive and interventional strategies.


PMCID: PMC2930786
PMID: 12220880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1265. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Oct;25(10):510-7.

cGMP and S-nitrosylation: two routes for modulation of neuronal excitability by
NO.

Ahern GP(1), Klyachko VA, Jackson MB.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology, Georgetown University, Washington, DC, USA.

The nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP signaling cascade has been implicated in synaptic
plasticity and, more broadly, in the control of many forms of electrical
activity. This raises the issue of how these second messengers regulate ion
channels. The field of ion-channel modulation is dominated by G proteins; NO and 
cGMP are often treated as poor cousins. However, recent advances surveyed here
could change this perception. A surprising new dimension to NO signaling is the
direct cGMP-independent action of NO on channel proteins through S-nitrosylation.
The existence of two effector pathways has important functional implications,
expanding and enriching the possibilities for modulating neuronal excitability.


PMID: 12220879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1266. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Oct;25(10):506-9.

Phenomics: fiction or the future?

Gerlai R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research, Lilly Research Laboratories, Lilly Corporate Center,
Drop Code 0510, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. gerlai_robert@lilly.com

The ease with which genetic mutations can be induced in or introduced into
mammalian organisms, such as the mouse, has created a significant need for
phenotypic analysis. Developments in computer technology, instrumentation and
bioinformatics, as well as in numerous neuroscience disciplines, will help to
meet the demands set by the molecular revolution. As a result, the field of
'phenomics' is being born. This will integrate multidisciplinary research, with
the goal of understanding the complex phenotypic consequences of genetic
mutations at the level of the organism. This paper focuses on one of the
disciplines that show promising developments, behavioral science.


PMID: 12220878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1267. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Oct;25(10):501-5.

An emerging molecular and cellular framework for memory processing by the
hippocampus.

Wittenberg GM(1), Tsien JZ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Molecular Biology, Princeton University, NJ 08544, USA.

The hippocampus plays a central role in memory consolidation, a process for
converting short-term memory into cortically stored, long-lasting memory in the
mammalian brain. Here, we review recent data and discuss the 'synaptic re-entry
reinforcement' (SRR) hypothesis, which can account for the role of the
hippocampus in memory consolidation at both the molecular and systems levels. The
central idea of the SRR hypothesis is that reactivation of neural ensembles in
the hippocampus during the consolidation period results in multiple rounds of
NMDA-receptor-dependent synaptic reinforcement of the hippocampal memory traces
created during initial learning. In addition, such reactivation and reinforcement
processes permit the hippocampus to act as a 'coincidence regenerator', providing
coordinated input that drives the coherent reactivation of cortical neurons,
resulting in the progressive strengthening of cortical memory traces through
reactivation of cortical NMDA receptors.


PMID: 12220877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1268. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Oct;25(10):496-7.

Exploring brain connectivity: a new frontier in systems neuroscience. Functional 
Brain Connectivity, 4-6 April 2002, Dusseldorf, Germany.

Ramnani N(1), Lee L, Mechelli A, Phillips C, Roebroeck A, Formisano E.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for fMRI of the Brain, University of Oxford, UK.
nramnani@fmrib.ox.ac.uk

Functional Brain Connectivity, held on 4-6 April 2002, Dusseldorf, Germany.


PMID: 12220872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1269. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Oct;25(10):494-6.

Teaching old drugs new tricks. Meeting of the Neurodegeneration Drug Screening
Consortium, 7-8 April 2002, Washington, DC, USA.

Heemskerk J(1), Tobin AJ, Bain LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Technology Development Program, National Institute of Neurological Disorders
and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
heemskej@ninds.nih.gov

Meeting of the Neurodegeneration Drug Screening Consortium, held on 7-8 April
2002, Washington, DC, USA.


PMID: 12220871  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1270. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Oct;25(10):492-4.

Perisynaptic asymmetry of glia: new insights into glutamate signalling.

Rusakov DA(1), Lehre KP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurology, University College London, Queen Square, UK.
d.rusakov@ion.ucl.ac.uk

Synaptically released glutamate activates extrasynaptic receptors; such actions
are controlled by glutamate uptake. Recent experimental findings show that there 
are many more glutamate transporters on the postsynaptic than presynaptic side of
the vicinity of central synapses. This asymmetry favours activation of axonal, as
opposed to dendritic, extrasynaptic glutamate receptors, thus imposing rule on
information processing in the brain.


PMID: 12220870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1271. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Oct;25(10):489-91.

Sense and sensibility in the regulation of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels.

Weiss JL(1), Burgoyne RD.

Author information: 
(1)The Physiological Laboratory, University of Liverpool, UK.

Voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels are crucial for neurotransmitter release and other 
neuronal functions, and their activity-dependent regulation could underlie
various aspects of synaptic plasticity. Recent studies have identified
Ca(2+)-sensing proteins involved in Ca(2+)-channel modulation. These have complex
effects on channel gating, and data suggest that the actions of multiple Ca(2+)
sensors are important for the fine-tuning of Ca(2+) channel activity.


PMID: 12220869  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1272. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Oct;25(10):487-9.

Real time odor representations.

Friedrich RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für medizinische Forschung, Abteilung biomedizinische
Optik, Jahnstr. 29, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
rainer.friedrich@mpimp-heidelberg.mpg.de

The relative importance of spatial and temporal patterning of odor-evoked
activity in the olfactory bulb is controversial. Recently, voltage-sensitive dye 
imaging has been used to demonstrate that odor-evoked glomerular patterns evolve 
over time in an odor-specific manner. The results suggest that odor information
is contained in a combination of spatial and temporal response components.


PMID: 12220868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1273. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Sep;25(9):481-4.

Sesquicentenary of the birthday of Santiago Ramón y Cajal, the father of modern
neuroscience.

DeFelipe J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cajal Institute (CSIC), Ave. Dr. Arce 37, 28002 Madrid, Spain.
defelipe@cajal.csic.es

The appearance of Santiago Ramón y Cajal in the world of neuroscience provoked a 
radical change in the course of its history. Cajal's studies of the microanatomy 
of virtually the whole CNS and his observations regarding degeneration and
regeneration, together with his theories about the function, development and
plasticity of the nervous system, had a profound impact on researchers of his
era. These studies represent the roots of what are today some of the most
exciting areas of discovery in terms of the structure and function of the brain
in both sickness and health.


PMID: 12183210  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1274. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Sep;25(9):474-80.

Cysteine regulation of protein function--as exemplified by NMDA-receptor
modulation.

Lipton SA(1), Choi YB, Takahashi H, Zhang D, Li W, Godzik A, Bankston LA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience and Aging, The Burnham Institute, 10901 North Torrey
Pines Road, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. slipton@burnham.org

Until recently cysteine residues, especially those located extracellularly, were 
thought to be important for metal coordination, catalysis and protein structure
by forming disulfide bonds - but they were not thought to regulate protein
function. However, this is not the case. Crucial cysteine residues can be
involved in modulation of protein activity and signaling events via other
reactions of their thiol (sulfhydryl; -SH) groups. These reactions can take
several forms, such as redox events (chemical reduction or oxidation), chelation 
of transition metals (chiefly Zn(2+), Mn(2+) and Cu(2+)) or S-nitrosylation [the 
catalyzed transfer of a nitric oxide (NO) group to a thiol group]. In several
cases, these disparate reactions can compete with one another for the same thiol 
group on a single cysteine residue, forming a molecular switch composed of a
latticework of possible redox, NO or Zn(2+) modifications to control protein
function. Thiol-mediated regulation of protein function can also involve
reactions of cysteine residues that affect ligand binding allosterically. This
article reviews the basis for these molecular cysteine switches, drawing on the
NMDA receptor as an exemplary protein, and proposes a molecular model for the
action of S-nitrosylation based on recently derived crystal structures.


PMID: 12183209  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1275. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Sep;25(9):468-73.

Understanding pathogenesis and treatment of HIV dementia: a role for magnetic
resonance?

Avison MJ(1), Nath A, Berger JR.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, University of Kentucky College of Medicine, Lexington, KY
40536-2184, USA. avison@mri.uky.edu

HIV dementia (HIVD) is among the most common and most feared neurological
complications of AIDS. In vitro studies have identified a constellation of
potentially neurotoxic inflammatory and non-inflammatory pathways, one or more of
which could underlie HIVD. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and magnetic
resonance imaging (MRI) studies can distinguish between inflammatory and
non-inflammatory pathways in vivo and suggest that either or both might be active
in different patients or at different times in the same patient. This could
perhaps explain the variability in HIVD development, progression and response to 
therapy. These findings also suggest that MRI and MRS can identify patients at
risk for HIVD and predict response to therapy.


PMID: 12183208  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1276. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Sep;25(9):462-7.

Do human bipeds use quadrupedal coordination?

Dietz V(1).

Author information: 
(1)ParaCare, Institute for Rehabilitation and Research, University Hospital
Balgrist, Forchstrasse 340, 8008 Zurich, Switzerland. dietz@balgrist.unizh.ch

Tackling the question of whether control of human gait is based on that of a
quadrupedal locomotion system is of basic and practical relevance. During
evolution, the increased influence of a direct cortical-motoneuronal system in
parallel with more specialized hand function might have replaced phylogenetically
older systems that organized locomotor movements. However, recent research
indicates that interlimb coordination during human locomotion is organized in a
similar way to that in the cat. Hence, it is hypothesized that during locomotion,
corticospinal excitation of upper limb motoneurons is mediated indirectly, via
propriospinal neurons in the cervical spinal cord. This allows a task-dependent
neuronal linkage of cervical and thoraco-lumbar propriospinal circuits
controlling leg and arm movements during human locomotor activities. The
persistence of such movement control has consequences for rehabilitation and the 
applicability of animal research to human patients with spinal cord injury.


PMID: 12183207  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1277. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Sep;25(9):456.

Memory consolidation and the amygdala: a systems perspective.

McGaugh JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology and Behavior, Center for the Neurobiology of Learning and
Memory, University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-3800, USA.

The basolateral region of the amygdala (BLA) plays a crucial role in making
significant experiences memorable. There is extensive evidence that stress
hormones and other neuromodulatory systems activated by arousing training
experiences converge in regulating noradrenaline-receptor activity within the
BLA. Such activation of the BLA modulates memory consolidation via BLA
projections to many brain regions involved in consolidating lasting memory,
including the hippocampus, caudate nucleus, nucleus basalis and cortex.
Investigation of the involvement of BLA projections to other brain regions is
essential for understanding influences of the amygdala on different aspects and
forms of memory.


PMID: 12183206  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1278. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Sep;25(9):449-55.

Modulation of synaptic delay during synaptic plasticity.

Lin JW(1), Faber DS.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology, Boston University, 5 Cummington Street, Boston, MA 02215,
USA. jenwelin@bu.edu

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2002 Oct;25(10):539.

At most synapses, information about the processes underlying transmitter release 
evoked by a presynaptic action potential has been gathered indirectly, based on
characterization of the postsynaptic response. Traditionally, the two
electrophysiological parameters used for this indirect investigation are the
amplitude and latency of the response. The amplitude measures amount of
transmitter released; the latency (synaptic delay) reflects the kinetics of a
sequence of events that culminates in release. The latency distribution of
quantal events, or the time course of composite evoked responses, can be used to 
infer the time course of the elevated release probability following a stimulus.
Recent studies have demonstrated that synaptic delay is not invariant, but is
modifiable during several forms of short-term synaptic plasticity. This suggests 
that the step of transmitter secretion can be modulated directly. Several models 
for short-term synaptic plasticity are evaluated in the context of the observed
changes in synaptic delay.


PMID: 12183205  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1279. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Sep;25(9):441-4.

In vivo FM: using conventional fluorescence microscopy to monitor retinal
neuronal death in vivo.

Thanos S(1), Indorf L, Naskar R.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Experimental Ophthalmology, University Eye Hospital Münster,
Domagkstrasse 15, D-48149 Münster, Germany. solon@uni-muenster.de

Post-traumatic death of mature retinal neurons occurs in glaucoma and after optic
nerve injury. The death is a dynamic process that can be fully analyzed with
methods that monitor changes over time. We have coupled the development of
retrogradely transportable fluorescent dyes with modification of conventional
epifluorescence microscopy to manipulate and visualize rat retinal neurons in
vivo. The method is a relatively new concept and has potential for the monitoring
of retinal conditions, such as glaucoma or optic nerve transection, and for
evaluation of neuroprotective strategies in the near future.


PMID: 12183199  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1280. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Sep;25(9):438-41; discussion 441.

Raising the speed limit--fast Ca(2+) handling in dendritic spines.

Helmchen F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Zellphysiologie, Max-Planck-Institute für medizinische Forschung,
Jahnstr. 29, 69120 Heidelberg, Germany. fritjof@mpimf-heidelberg.mpg.de

Ca2+ influx into dendritic spines is involved in the induction of both long-term 
potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) by activating distinct
biochemical cascades, depending on the stimulation protocol. Such conditional
activation can be explained by the finding that removal of Ca2+ from spines is
extremely rapid (approximately 15 ms) and promoted by a low endogenous buffering 
capacity. As a consequence, the time course of influx and binding kinetics are
important determinants of how much Ca2+ binds to a particular enzyme. In addition
structural factors, such as shape and dendritic location, could contribute to
fine-tuning of spine Ca2+ handling and synaptic modification.


PMID: 12183197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1281. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Sep;25(9):436-7; discussion 437-8.

Mechanisms of Pavlovian fear conditioning: has the engram been located?

Paré D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Aidekman Research Center,
Rutgers State University, 197 University Avenue, Newark, NJ 07102, USA.
pare@axon.rutgers.edu

Uncertainty persists as to whether the amygdala is a crucial site of plasticity
for classically conditioned fear or merely a sensory relay to structures
generating fear responses. A recent Nature study suggests that associative
synaptic changes take place in neurons of the amygdala during fear conditioning, 
and that these changes require dopamine-mediated modulation. Nevertheless, these 
findings do not prove that the amygdala is a sufficient site of plasticity for
fear memory.


PMID: 12183195  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1282. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Sep;25(9):433-5.

A problem with Hebb and local spikes.

Goldberg J(1), Holthoff K, Yuste R.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, 1212 Amsterdam Avenue, Box
2435, New York, NY 10027, USA. jhg24@columbia.edu

Although our understanding of the cellular properties of mammalian neurons is
increasing rapidly, the computational function of their elaborate dendritic trees
is still mysterious. In recent years, experiments have shown that, in pyramidal
cells, individual dendritic compartments sustain local excitation spikes.. These 
dendrites also support Hebbian synaptic plasticity, which depends on the precise 
temporal relationship between pre- and postsynaptic spikes. In this review we
discuss what we consider to be a problem with Hebbian (i.e.,
spike-timing-dependent) plasticity. We argue that most of the spikes that occur
in dendrites are not back-propagating action potentials but but local spikes, and
that Hebbian plasticity caused by local spikes can undermine the functional
integrity of the geometrically complex dendritic tree. We propose that the
inverted Hebbian plasticity of synapses involved in local spikes, and/or local
dendritic homeostatic plasticity, could prevent an unbalanced distribution of
synaptic weights on the dendritic tree.


PMID: 12183194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1283. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):430-1.

Genetic bases of mental illness -- a cure for stigma?

Phelan JC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sociomedical Sciences, Columbia University, 600 West 168th St,
New York, NY 10032, USA. jcp13@columbia.edu

An increased emphasis on biological causes of mental illness has been viewed as
having the potential to significantly reduce stigma. From this perspective, the
current genetics revolution can be seen as a source of hope. However, some have
argued that biological attributions could increase stigma, for example by making 
the ill person seem 'defective' or 'physically distinct' -- 'almost a different
species'. In this paper, I use a multicomponent conceptualization of stigma as a 
guide in forming hypotheses about the likely impact of genetic attributions on
the stigma of mental illness.


PMID: 12127761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1284. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):423-9.

Moving around in a worm: netrin UNC-6 and circumferential axon guidance in C.
elegans.

Wadsworth WG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, 675 Hoes Lane
West, Piscataway, NJ 08854-5635, USA. william.wadsworth@umdnj.edu

How does an extracellular guidance molecule direct multiple growth cones to
different positions? The answer is important for understanding the development of
complex neural connections. UNC-6 is a member of the netrin family of guidance
proteins. It has phylogenetically conserved domains that mediate its different
guidance and branching activities. In the Caenorhabditis elegans embryo, UNC-6 is
secreted ventrally and a pattern of circumferential axon tracts develops as
pioneer growth cones bearing UNC-5 and UNC-40 receptors are directed towards, or 
away from, the ventral sources. Following the first migrations, UNC-6 from
additional sources allows more complex migration patterns to emerge. In addition,
at specific dorsoventral positions, locally restricted extracellular molecules
alter growth cone responses to UNC-6, causing circumferentially migrating growth 
cones to turn and longitudinal nerves to develop. These observations show that
extracellular guidance molecules can direct complex arrangements of migrating
growth cones in vivo by eliciting different types of responses, by spatially and 
temporally regulating their expression and by working in concert with other
extracellular molecules.


PMID: 12127760  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1285. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):417-22.

An 'oligarchy' rules neural development.

Rowitch DH(1), Lu QR, Kessaris N, Richardson WD.

Author information: 
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical School, 44 Binney Street,
Boston, MA 02115, USA. david_rowitch@dfci.harvard.edu

Recent reports show that Olig genes, which encode the basic helix-loop-helix Olig
transcription factors, are essential for development of oligodendrocytes.
Surprisingly, Olig function is also required for formation of somatic motor
neurons. These findings alter our views of how the oligodendrocyte lineage is
generated and raise further questions about the underlying developmental
relationships between neurons and glia.


PMID: 12127759  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1286. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):412-7.

Lipid rafts in neuronal signaling and function.

Tsui-Pierchala BA(1), Encinas M, Milbrandt J, Johnson EM Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Pharmacology, Campus Box 8103, Washington 
University School of Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St Louis, MO 63110, USA.

Lipid rafts are plasma membrane microdomains rich in cholesterol and
sphingolipids, which provide a particularly ordered lipid environment. Rafts are 
enriched in glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored proteins, as well as
proteins involved in signal transduction and intracellular trafficking. In
neurons, lipid rafts act as platforms for the signal transduction initiated by
several classes of neurotrophic factors, including neurotrophins and
glial-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF)-family ligands. Emerging evidence also
indicates that such rafts are important for neuronal cell adhesion, axon guidance
and synaptic transmission. Thus, lipid rafts are structurally unique components
of plasma membranes, crucial for neural development and function.


PMID: 12127758  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1287. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):405-11.

Cooperation between mglu receptors: a depressing mechanism?

Cho K(1), Bashir ZI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, School of Medicine and Biomedical Science,
University of Sheffield, Sheffield S10 2TN, UK.

Recent findings from the perirhinal cortex have shed new light on the ways in
which metabotropic glutamate receptors could be involved in synaptic plasticity, 
and in particular in long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission.
Importantly, these findings have also led to a greater understanding of
mechanisms that could regulate mglu-receptor signalling and the ways in which
mglu receptors interact with one another.


PMID: 12127757  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1288. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):400-4.

Axonal and presynaptic protein synthesis: new insights into the biology of the
neuron.

Giuditta A(1), Kaplan BB, van Minnen J, Alvarez J, Koenig E.

Author information: 
(1)Department of General and Environmental Physiology, University of Naples
Federico II, Naples, Italy. giuditta@unina.it

The presence of a local mRNA translation system in axons and terminals was
proposed almost 40 years ago. Over the ensuing period, an impressive body of
evidence has grown to support this proposal -- yet the nerve cell body is still
considered to be the only source of axonal and presynaptic proteins. To dispel
this lingering neglect, we now present the wealth of recent observations bearing 
on this central idea, and consider their impact on our understanding of the
biology of the neuron. We demonstrate that extrasomatic translation sites, which 
are now well recognized in dendrites, are also present in axonal and presynaptic 
compartments.


PMID: 12127756  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1289. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):390-4.

Cyclic amplification of protein misfolding: application to prion-related
disorders and beyond.

Soto C(1), Saborio GP, Anderes L.

Author information: 
(1)Serono International SA, Geneva, Switzerland. claudio.soto@serono.com

Diverse human disorders, including the majority of neurodegenerative diseases,
are thought to arise from the misfolding and aggregation of protein. We have
recently described a novel technology to amplify cyclically misfolded proteins in
vitro. This procedure, named protein misfolding cyclic amplification (PMCA), is
conceptually analogous to DNA amplification by PCR and has tremendous
implications for research and diagnosis. The PMCA concept has been proved on the 
amplification of prions implicated in the pathogenesis of transmissible
spongiform encephalopathies. In this article we describe the rational behind PMCA
and some of the many potential applications of this novel technology.


PMID: 12127750  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1290. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):390.

Response: event-related brain dynamics -- unifying brain electrophysiology.

Makeig S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Swartz Center for Computational Neuroscience, Institute for Neural
Computation, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0961, USA.
smakeig@ucsd.edu

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):387-9.


PMID: 12127749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1291. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):387-9.

Event-related brain dynamics.

Penny WD(1), Kiebel SJ, Kilner JM, Rugg MD.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Department of Imaging Neuroscience, University College London, 12
Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK. wpenny@fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):390.

Comment on
    Science. 2002 Jan 25;295(5555):690-4.

Event-related potentials (ERPs) provide evidence of a direct link between
cognitive events and brain electrical activity in a wide range of cognitive
paradigms. It has generally been held that an ERP is the result of a set of
discrete stimulus-evoked brain events. A recent study, however, provides new
evidence to suggest that some ERP components might be generated by
stimulus-induced changes in ongoing brain dynamics. This is consistent with views
emerging from several neuroscientific fields, suggesting that phase
synchronization of ongoing rhythms across different spatio-temporal scales
mediates the functional integration necessary to perform higher cognitive tasks.


PMID: 12127748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1292. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):386-7.

Response: meaningless minis?

Featherstone D(1), Broadie K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago, 845 West
Taylor Street, Chicago, IL 60607, USA. def@uic.edu

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):383-5.


PMID: 12127747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1293. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):385-6.

Response: meaningless minis?

Saitoe M(1), Schwarz TL, Umbach JA, Gundersen CB, Kidokoro Y.

Author information: 
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute for Neuroscience, Fuchu, Tokyo 183-8526, Japan.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):383-5.


PMID: 12127746  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1294. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):383-5.

Meaningless minis? Mechanisms of neurotransmitter-receptor clustering.

Verstreken P(1), Bellen HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Developmental Biology, Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, 
Division of Neuroscience, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Baylor College of
Medicine, Houston, TX, USA. pv993803@bcm.tmc.edu

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):385-6.
    Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):386-7.

Initiation and maintenance of the postsynaptic neurotransmitter-receptor field
are important steps during synapse formation and maturation, as they play a
determinative role in regulating synaptic strength. However, the mechanisms
directing neurotransmitter-receptor clustering and maintenance are poorly
understood. Recently, two models explaining glutamate-receptor clustering at the 
Drosophila neuromuscular junction have been proposed. One model postulates that
release of an agent via single vesicle fusion events (minis) is required for the 
initiation of postsynaptic glutamate-receptor clustering, and that glutamate is
not responsible for initiation or maintenance of the postsynaptic receptor field.
The other model rules out a role for minis in initiation of clustering, and
suggests a role for non-vesicular release of glutamate in receptor-field
maintenance. Here, we compare and discuss the data underlying both models.


PMID: 12127745  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1295. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):381-3.

Sealed with a twist: complexin and the synaptic SNARE complex.

Marz KE(1), Hanson PI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 South Euclid Avenue, Box 8228, St Louis, MO 6311, USA.

Knockout experiments show that complexins are crucial for Ca(2+)-dependent
neurotransmitter release. In the recently solved crystal structure of complexin I
bound to the synaptic SNARE complex, complexin binds along the groove between the
syntaxin and synaptobrevin coils. This structure, together with NMR data,
suggests that the role of complexin is to stabilize the SNARE complex as it forms
from SNAREs in vesicle and target membranes.


PMID: 12127744  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1296. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Aug;25(8):379-81.

Retrograde signaling by the neurotrophins follows a well-worn trk.

Barker PA(1), Hussain NK, McPherson PS.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuronal Survival and Cell Biology of Excitable Tissues Group,
Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University, 3801 University Avenue,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3A 2B4. phil.barker@mcgill.ca

The mechanism that allows a neuron to send cues received at its terminal to its
cell body and nucleus has proved elusive. However, a recent study by Howe and
colleagues indicates that neurotrophin signaling via the trkA receptor requires
formation of a signaling endosome containing NGF and trkA. Thus, endocytosis of
the neurotrophin-receptor complex is a crucial step in the generation of
intracellular signaling platforms required for activation and
compartmentalization of signaling events.


PMID: 12127743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1297. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jul;25(7):370-6.

The special nature of human walking and its neural control.

Capaday C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Brain and Movement Laboratory, CRULRG, Departmentt of Anatomy and Physiology, 
Faculty of Medicine, Université Laval, Québec City, Québec, Canada G1J 2G3.
charles.capaday@anm.ulaval.ca

Walking the way we do is inherently unstable. Sophisticated neurological control 
systems are required to ensure that we progress and maintain our balance at the
same time. Most of what is known about the functional organization of these
neurological control systems is inferred from studies on animals. Here, I compare
selected studies on the neural control of human walking with similar studies in
reduced animal preparations. The simple monosynaptic reflex appears to be
controlled by comparable mechanisms in walking cats and humans. However,
peripheral feedback mechanisms suggested to contribute to the switch from stance 
to swing on the basis of experiments in reduced cat preparations have little
influence during human walking. A cat whose spinal cord has been completely
transected can be made to walk on a treadmill by drug injections, but such an
immediate effect of pharmacological intervention is not seen in humans. However, 
there have been reports that pharmacological intervention can improve the walking
of patients with incomplete spinal cord injury, especially when pharmacological
treatment is combined with training.


PMID: 12079766  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1298. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jul;25(7):365-70.

Interactive nervous system development: control of cell survival in Drosophila.

Hidalgo A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodevelopment Group, Department of Genetics, University of Cambridge,
Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EH, UK. a.hidalgo@gen.cam.ac.uk

The non-autonomous control of cell survival has long been thought to be a
mechanism of adjusting cell populations in the vertebrate nervous system,
enabling connectivity and myelination to produce a functional brain. Despite
cellular evidence that analogous mechanisms occur in invertebrates, scepticism
has long reigned over whether they operate in model organisms such as Drosophila.
This has led to speculation that there are inherent differences between the
development and evolution of simple brains and the brains of vertebrates. The
great paradox has, until recently, been the absence of molecular evidence of
trophic factors in Drosophila. Recent data have finally shown that EGFR
(epidermal-growth-factor receptor) ligands function in the Drosophila CNS to
maintain glial survival. Trophic interactions are, thus, a general mechanism of
nervous system development.


PMID: 12079765  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1299. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jul;25(7):359-64.

Does glutamate image your thoughts?

Bonvento G(1), Sibson N, Pellerin L.

Author information: 
(1)CEA CNRS URA 2210, Service Hospitalier Frédéric Joliot 4, place du Général
Leclerc, 91401 Orsay Cedex, France. bonvento@shjf.cea.fr

Functional imaging methods exploit the relationship between neuronal activity,
energy demand and cerebral blood flow to functionally map the brain. Despite the 
increasing use of these imaging tools in basic and clinical neuroscience, the
neurobiological processes underlying the imaging signals remain unclear.
Recently, interest has been focused on uncovering the signals that trigger the
metabolic and vascular changes accompanying variations in neuronal activity.
Advances in this field have demonstrated that release of the major excitatory
neurotransmitter glutamate initiates diverse signaling processes between neurons 
and astrocytes, and that this signaling could be crucial for the occurrence of
brain imaging signals. In this article we review the hypothesis that glutamate
represents a common trigger for both neurometabolic and neurovascular coupling.


PMID: 12079764  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1300. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jul;25(7):354-9.

Has electrical growth cone guidance found its potential?

McCaig CD(1), Rajnicek AM, Song B, Zhao M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Institute of Medical Sciences, University
of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, UK. c.mccaig@abdn.ac.uk

Many neurobiologists spurn the existence and use of direct-current (DC) electric 
fields (EFs) in nervous system development and regeneration. This is despite
direct measurement of EFs in embryos and adults, and evidence that EFs are
required for normal development, dramatically influence the rate and direction of
nerve growth in vitro, and promote nerve regeneration in vivo. The notion that
growth cones use EFs as guidance cues was dismissed partly because there was no
convincing evidence that naturally occurring EFs influence nerve growth at the
single-cell level in vivo. Recent work indicates that growth cones can be guided 
by EFs in vivo and, intriguingly, that in vitro guidance by chemotropic gradients
and EFs might invoke similar mechanisms. Ongoing clinical trials to assess the
effectiveness of DC EFs in promoting the regeneration of human spinal cord could 
allow EFs to achieve their potential.


PMID: 12079763  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1301. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jul;25(7):348-53.

The planum temporale as a computational hub.

Griffiths TD(1), Warren JD.

Author information: 
(1)Newcastle University Medical School, Framlington Place, Newcastle-upon-Tyne
NE2 4HH, UK. t.d.griffiths@ncl.ac.uk

It is increasingly recognized that the human planum temporale is not a dedicated 
language processor, but is in fact engaged in the analysis of many types of
complex sound. We propose a model of the human planum temporale as a
computational engine for the segregation and matching of spectrotemporal
patterns. The model is based on segregating the components of the acoustic world 
and matching these components with learned spectrotemporal representations.
Spectrotemporal information derived from such a 'computational hub' would be
gated to higher-order cortical areas for further processing, leading to object
recognition and the perception of auditory space. We review the evidence for the 
model and specific predictions that follow from it.


PMID: 12079762  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1302. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jul;25(7):340-3.

Rodent models of prefrontal cortical function.

Brown VJ(1), Bowman EM.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of St Andrews, St. Andrews KY16 9JU, UK.
vjb@st-and.ac.uk

In this article, we consider whether studies in rats can provide useful
information regarding the debate about the functions of the primate prefrontal
cortex. At a superficial level, comparison of regional specializations within the
prefrontal cortices of different species suggests functional correspondence.
Unfortunately, the nature of functional specialization in primate prefrontal
cortex is controversial, and data supporting the idea of homology between
specific areas of rat and primate prefrontal cortex are weak. Nevertheless, we
argue here that studies of the computational functions within the relatively
undifferentiated prefrontal cortex of rats can shed light on processing in
primate prefrontal cortex.


PMID: 12079756  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1303. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jul;25(7):336-40.

Knockout mice: simple solutions to the problems of genetic background and
flanking genes.

Wolfer DP(1), Crusio WE, Lipp HP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy and Center for Neuroscience, University of Zürich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zürich, Switzerland.

Inducing null mutations by means of homologous recombination provides a powerful 
technique to investigate gene function and has found wide application in many
different fields. However, it was realized some time ago that the specific way in
which such knockout mutants are generated can be confounding, making it
impossible to separate the effects of the induced null mutation from those of
alleles originating from the embryonic stem cell donor. In addition, effects from
null mutations can be altered on different genetic backgrounds. Here we present
some simple breeding strategies to test for flanking gene effects that are
compatible with the recommendations of the Banbury Conference on Genetic
Background in Mice and with common practices of creating and maintaining mouse
knockout lines.


PMID: 12079755  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1304. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jul;25(7):334-5.

Sex, cells and signals in the developing brain.

Fannon SA(1), Vidaver RM, Marts SA.

Author information: 
(1)Society for Women's Health Research, 1828 L Street, NW Suite 625, Washington, 
DC 20036, USA.


PMID: 12079754  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1305. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jul;25(7):332-4.

Ephs and ephrins close ranks.

Cutforth T(1), Harrison CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurobiology and Behavior, Columbia University, 701 W. 168 St, New 
York, NY 10032, USA.

The past decade has seen remarkable advances in identification of the proteins
regulating axon guidance and synapse formation. Understanding the structural and 
molecular basis of their signaling properties is now the task at hand. The
recently characterized crystal structure of the complex formed between the
ligand-binding domain of EphB2 and the ectodomain of its binding partner
ephrin-B2 provides an insight into the recognition and signal transduction
mechanisms of this large multifunctional family of surface receptors. This
heterotetrameric complex reveals a cyclic arrangement of subunits not previously 
seen in any receptor-ligand structure, and provides a basis for class specificity
of binding.


PMID: 12079753  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1306. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jul;25(7):329-32.

RIM1: an edge for presynaptic plasticity.

Lonart G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Anatomy, Eastern Virginia Medical School, PO Box
1980, Norfolk, VA 23501, USA. lonartg@evms.edu

Pioneering work suggests that a synaptic active zone protein, RIM1, regulates
both short- and long-term glutamatergic presynaptic plasticity at certain
synapses. In short-term plasticity, RIM1 accelerates the priming of synaptic
vesicles for fusion; by contrast, in long-term potentiation of mossy fiber
synapses in the hippocampal CA3 region, phosphorylated RIM1 acts through an
unknown molecular pathway to enhance release of the excitatory neurotransmitter
glutamate.


PMID: 12079752  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1307. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jul;25(7):327-9.

Tau neurotoxicity without the lesions: a fly challenges a tangled web.

de Silva R(1), Farrer M.

Author information: 
(1)Reta Lila Weston Institute of Neurological Studies, Royal Free & University
College Medical School, Windeyer Building, 46 Cleveland Street, London W1T 4JF,
UK.

Models of neurodegenerative disorders are challenging the classical defining role
of tangles in neurotoxicity. In flies, tau overexpression is sufficient to cause 
neuronal death without the formation of fibrillar aggregates. This parallels
observations in models of polyglutamine disorders and suggests that aggregated
protein might not be the toxic species responsible for neuronal dysfunction and
cell death.


PMID: 12079751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1308. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):319-25.

Chronic pain and medullary descending facilitation.

Porreca F(1), Ossipov MH, Gebhart GF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, University of Arizona Health 
Sciences Center, Tucson, AZ 85724, USA. frankp@u.arizona.edu

Chronic pain, whether the result of nerve trauma or persistent inflammation, is a
debilitating condition that exerts a high social cost in terms of productivity,
economic impact and quality of life. Currently available therapies yield limited 
success in treating such pain, suggesting the need for new insight into
underlying mechanism(s). Here, we examine the likelihood that sustained
activation of descending modulatory pathways that facilitate pain transmission
could underlie some states of chronic pain. Such activation of descending
facilitatory pathways might be the result of neuroplastic changes that occur at
medullary sites in response to persistent input of pain signals. Understanding
the mechanisms of descending facilitation and the spinal effects of such
discharge could provide new insights into the modulation of chronic pain.


PMID: 12086751  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1309. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):313-9.

Cytotoxic T lymphocytes in autoimmune and degenerative CNS diseases.

Neumann H(1), Medana IM, Bauer J, Lassmann H.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Unit, European Neuroscience Institute Göttingen, Waldweg 33,
37073 Göttingen, Germany. hneuman1@gwdg.de

Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) with a CD8(+) phenotype have the potential to
recognize and attack major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-expressing
brain cells. Most brain cells, including neurons, can be stimulated to present
peptides to CD8(+) CTLs by MHC class I molecules, and are susceptible to
CTL-mediated cytotoxicity in culture. In disease-affected brain parenchyma,
CD8(+) CTLs outnumber other T-cell subtypes. They show clonal expansion in
several inflammatory and degenerative CNS diseases, such as multiple sclerosis
(MS), virus-induced inflammatory brain diseases and paraneoplastic neurological
disorders. In MS, damage of axons is closely linked to the CD8(+) CTLs, and
protection against CTL-mediated damage should be considered as a new therapeutic 
approach in MS and other neuroinflammatory diseases.


PMID: 12086750  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1310. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):307-12.

Getting excited about GABA and sex differences in the brain.

McCarthy MM(1), Auger AP, Perrot-Sinal TS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Maryland-Baltimore, 655 W. Baltimore
Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. mmccarth@umaryland.edu

In a unique reversal of function, the ubiquitous and dominant inhibitory
neurotransmitter, GABA, serves as the major source of neuronal excitation in the 
developing brain. Opening of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels following
GABA(A)-receptor-mediated depolarization translates the action of GABA into
trophic responses, such as changes in cell death and synaptic patterning. During 
a perinatal sensitive period, steroid hormones, in particular estradiol, modulate
these cellular responses to differentiate male and female brains. Profound sex
differences are found in the volumes of specific nuclei, and the frequencies and 
types of synapses, in estradiol-concentrating brain regions. Recent evidence
suggests that the mechanism of estradiol action involves enhancing, and extending
the duration of, the developmental excitatory effects of GABA, resulting in
divergence of the signal transduction pathways activated in males versus females.
This is the first identification of a pivotal point in brain development that
dictates the sex differences evident in adult physiology and behavior.


PMID: 12086749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1311. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):302-6.

The placebo effect in Parkinson's disease.

de la Fuente-Fernández R(1), Stoessl AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Pacific Parkinson's Research Centre, University of British Columbia, Purdy
Pavilion, 2221 Wesbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6T 2B5.

The biochemical bases of the placebo effect are still incompletely known. We show
here that the placebo effect in Parkinson's disease is due, at least in part, to 
the release of dopamine in the striatum. We propose that the placebo effect might
be related to reward mechanisms. The expectation of reward (i.e. clinical
benefit) seems to be particularly relevant. According to this theory, brain
dopamine release could be a common biochemical substrate for the placebo effect
encountered in other medical conditions, such as pain and depression. Other
neurotransmitters or neuropeptides, however, are also likely to be involved in
mediating the placebo effect (e.g. opioids in pain disorders, serotonin in
depression).


PMID: 12086748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1312. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):295-301.

Exercise: a behavioral intervention to enhance brain health and plasticity.

Cotman CW(1), Berchtold NC.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Brain Aging and Dementia, Department of Neurobiology and
Behavior, University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-4540, USA. cwcotman@uci.edu

Extensive research on humans suggests that exercise could have benefits for
overall health and cognitive function, particularly in later life. Recent studies
using animal models have been directed towards understanding the neurobiological 
bases of these benefits. It is now clear that voluntary exercise can increase
levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and other growth factors,
stimulate neurogenesis, increase resistance to brain insult and improve learning 
and mental performance. Recently, high-density oligonucleotide microarray
analysis has demonstrated that, in addition to increasing levels of BDNF,
exercise mobilizes gene expression profiles that would be predicted to benefit
brain plasticity processes. Thus, exercise could provide a simple means to
maintain brain function and promote brain plasticity.


PMID: 12086747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1313. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):293; author reply 294.

Untangling spatial from temporal illusions.

Eagleman DM, Sejnowski TJ.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):335-9.


PMID: 12086745  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1314. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):287-8.

New laboratory start-up in the 21st century.

Carmichael ST(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, UCLA School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. 
scarmichael@mednet.ucla.edu

Launching a new neuroscience laboratory requires knowledge of purchasing,
budgeting and personnel management. The usual training of scientific
investigators omits these areas, at a time when experimental complexity is
growing and Internet-based commerce offers new purchasing options. This review
highlights laboratory start-up maxims and their applications to web-based
purchasing, cost containment and budgeting.


PMID: 12086740  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1315. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):284-6.

Jekyll-Hyde neurotrophins: the story of proNGF.

Ibáñez CF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Neurobiology, Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska
Institute, 17177 Stockholm, Sweden. carlos.ibanez@neuro.ki.se [corrected]

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2002 Jul;25(7):378.

Neurotrophins promote neuronal survival and differentiation by binding to two
classes of cell surface receptors: members of the Trk-family receptor tyrosine
kinases and p75(NTR), a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily.
The discoveries that the unprocessed proneurotrophin peptide is both a
preferential high-affinity ligand for p75(NTR) (with minimal affinity for trkA)
and a potent inducer of p75(NTR)-mediated neuronal cell death are likely to
change our understanding of neurotrophin physiology and our ability to manipulate
their signaling pathways.


PMID: 12086739  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1316. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):282-3.

Competing on the edge.

Scanziani M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
massimo@hifo.unizh.ch

Fast-acting neurotransmitters can exit the synaptic cleft and bind to
extrasynaptic receptors. This process is modulated by transmitter uptake
mechanisms (transporters). A new study focusing on glutamate-mediated
transmission in the cerebellum describes the specific role of neuronal
transporters in modulating the access of glutamate to extrasynaptic metabotropic 
glutamate receptors, and reveals important consequences of extrasynaptic
signaling on synaptic plasticity.


PMID: 12086738  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1317. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):279-81; discussion 281-2.

The birth of a memory.

Otten LJ(1), Rugg MD.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience and Department of Psychology, University
College London, London WC1N 3AR, UK. l.otten@ucl.ac.uk

Laying down new memories has long been thought to involve interactions between
the hippocampus and multiple regions of the neocortex. Functional neuroimaging
studies performed over the past four years provide evidence for this proposal. A 
recent electrophysiological study offers a possible mechanism by which
interactions between brain regions take place during memory formation.


PMID: 12086736  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1318. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):277-9.

Giving drugs to knockout mice: can they do that?

Chapman PF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cardiff School of Biosciences, Cardiff University, PO Box 911, Cardiff CF10
3US, UK. chapmanPF@cf.ac.uk

The past ten years have seen an explosion in the number of genetically modified
mice created to aid understanding of the basic mechanisms of learning and memory.
There are still significant problems associated with this useful technique,
mostly involving the lack of temporal or spatial control over the genetic
'lesion'. By combining the application of drugs that are sub-threshold in
wild-type mice with heterozygosity for gene mutations that do not produce effects
alone, it is now possible to avoid many of the problems of both the genetic and
the pharmacological approaches.


PMID: 12086735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1319. Trends Neurosci. 2002 May;25(5):270-4.

A bug's smell--research into insect olfaction.

Hansson BS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Crop Science, Division of Chemical Ecology, Swedish University
of Agricultural Sciences, PO Box 44, SE-230 53 Alnarp, Sweden.
bill.hansson@vv.slu.se

The olfactory system has become an important model system for neurobiological
function and sensory processing. In insects, odours play a vital role in all
aspects of life. From the late 1950s until very recently, research into the
structure and function of the insect olfactory system has often preceded similar 
investigations in vertebrates and has been important in the formulation of
general principles.


PMID: 11972965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1320. Trends Neurosci. 2002 May;25(5):268-70.

A Canadian experiment: the Institute of Neurosciences, Mental Health and
Addiction. How to link up the brain via a virtual institute.

Quirion R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurosciences, Mental Health and Addiction, Douglas Hospital
Research Centre, McGill University, 6875 Blvd Lasalle, Verdun, Quebec, Canada H4H
1R3. quirem@douglas.mcgill.ca

In June 2000, the Canadian government abolished the Medical Research Council of
Canada, creating the Canadian Institutes of Health Research (CIHR) and appointing
the internationally renowned geneticist Alan Bernstein as its first president.
Bernstein and the CIHR Governing Council then elaborated the novel concept of 13 
'virtual' CIHR institutes (see http://www.cihr.ca for further information). These
institutes are not physical entities, but virtual organizations aiming to support
researchers located in universities, hospitals and research centres across
Canada. Following an open competition, December 2000 saw the appointment of a
scientific director to lead the development of each institute. Rémi Quirion, a
neuroscientist and Professor of Psychiatry based at the Douglas Hospital Research
Centre of McGill University (Montreal, Canada) is the first Scientific Director
of the Institute of Neurosciences, Mental Health and Addiction (INMHA). Here he
summarizes the early developments and initiatives undertaken by his institute.


PMID: 11972964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1321. Trends Neurosci. 2002 May;25(5):260-7.

Boundary formation in the hindbrain: Eph only it were simple...

Cooke JE(1), Moens CB.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Division of Basic Sciences, Fred Hutchinson
Cancer Research Center B2-152, 1100 Fairview Avenue N., Seattle, WA 98109, USA.
jcooke@fhcrc.org

Segmentation of the vertebrate hindbrain into rhombomeres is a key step in the
development of a complex pattern of differentiated neurons from a homogeneous
neuroepithelium. Many of the transcription factors important for establishing the
segmental plan and assigning rhombomere identity are now known. However, the
downstream effectors that bring about the formation of rhombomere boundaries are 
only just being characterized. Here we discuss molecules that could be
responsible for segregating populations of cells from different rhombomeres. We
focus on recent work demonstrating that the Eph family of receptor tyrosine
kinases and their ligands, the ephrins, function in rhombomere-specific cell
sorting and initiation of a structural boundary. We discuss the contributions of 
two mechanisms -- cell sorting and plasticity -- to the formation of rhombomere
boundaries.


PMID: 11972963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1322. Trends Neurosci. 2002 May;25(5):253-9.

NaN/Nav1.9: a sodium channel with unique properties.

Dib-Hajj S(1), Black JA, Cummins TR, Waxman SG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and PVA/EPVA Neuroscience Research Center, Yale
University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, USA.

The Na(v)1.9 Na(+) channel (also known as NaN) is preferentially expressed in
nociceptive neurons of the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and trigeminal ganglia.
Na(v)1.9 produces a persistent, tetrodotoxin-resistant current with wide overlap 
between activation and steady-state inactivation, and appears to modulate resting
potential and to amplify small depolarizations. These unique properties indicate 
that Na(v)1.9 has significant effects on the electroresponsive properties of
primary nociceptive neurons. Downregulation of Na(v)1.9, which results from a
lack of peripheral glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor following peripheral
axotomy, might retune DRG neurons and contribute to their hyperexcitability after
nerve injury. Thus, Na(v)1.9 appears to play a key role in nociception and is an 
attractive target in the search for more effective treatments for pain.


PMID: 11972962  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1323. Trends Neurosci. 2002 May;25(5):243-51.

Molecular mechanisms of CNS synaptogenesis.

Garner CC(1), Zhai RG, Gundelfinger ED, Ziv NE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, Stanford University, Palo
Alto, CA 94304-5485, USA. garner@stanford.edu

Synapses of the mammalian CNS are asymmetric sites of cell-cell adhesion between 
nerve cells. They are designed to mediate the rapid and efficient transmission of
signals from the presynaptic bouton of one neuron to the postsynaptic plasma
membrane of a second neuron. Significant progress has been made in the
characterization of the structural, functional and developmental assembly of CNS 
synapses. Recent progress has been made in understanding the molecular and
cellular mechanisms that underlie synaptogenesis, in particular that of
glutamatergic synapses of the CNS.


PMID: 11972960  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1324. Trends Neurosci. 2002 May;25(5):239-43.

Ephrins are not only unattractive.

Holmberg J(1), Frisén J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Medical Nobel Institute, Karolinska 
Institute, SE-171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.

The ephrins and their Eph receptors have emerged as repulsive cues for growing
axons during the past decade. Since then, great effort has been made to
understand the significance and mechanisms of Eph-mediated repulsion. More
recently, it has become clear that ephrins perform in many more developmental
processes than the repulsion-dependent establishment of topography in the nervous
system. As numerous studies suggest functions more akin to adhesion or attraction
than to repulsion, increasing attention is now being paid to the intracellular
mechanisms that might explain this duality.


PMID: 11972959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1325. Trends Neurosci. 2002 May;25(5):235-8.

Radial glia: multi-purpose cells for vertebrate brain development.

Campbell K(1), Götz M.

Author information: 
(1)Children's Hospital Research Foundation, 3333 Burnet Avenue, Cincinnati, OH
45229, USA. kenneth.campbell@chmcc.org

Radial glia are specialized cells in the developing nervous system of all
vertebrates, and are characterized by long radial processes. These processes
facilitate the best known function of radial glia: guiding the radial migration
of newborn neurons from the ventricular zone to the mantle regions. Recent data
indicate further important roles for these cells as ubiquitous precursors that
generate neurons and glia, and as key elements in patterning and region-specific 
differentiation of the CNS. Thus, from being regarded mainly as support cells,
radial glia have emerged as multi-purpose cells involved in most aspects of brain
development.


PMID: 11972958  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1326. Trends Neurosci. 2002 May;25(5):227-30.

Stereotypy in neocortical microcircuits.

Silberberg G(1), Gupta A, Markram H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, 76100, Rehovot,
Israel.

A central debate regarding neocortical function concerns the degree to which the 
underlying microcircuitry is stereotypically organized. Stereotypy reflects
invariance in structure and function, as a result of common genetic templates and
environmental conditions, whereas uniqueness can be caused by genetic variations,
differences in environmental conditions as well as random processes. Stereotypy
is an appealing concept because it provides strong support for determinism in the
formation of neuronal microcircuits and in the relationship between their
specific structure and function.


PMID: 11972952  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1327. Trends Neurosci. 2002 May;25(5):225-7.

Where, oh where, have my stem cells gone?

Wexler E(1), Palmer T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, Stanford University Medical
Center, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. ewexler@stanford.edu

During the summer of 2001, Americans were treated to high political drama
courtesy of the debate over embryonic and adult stem cell research. The popular
press was flush with predictions about how neural stem cells would reverse,
almost by magic, the devastation caused by diseases such as Alzheimer's,
Parkinson's, stroke or spinal cord injury. Unfortunately, this promise remains
unfulfilled because we have such a poor understanding of how stem cells function.
With regard to adult stem cells, we are not even completely sure where they are, 
or how or when they got there. A provocative study by Ourednik et al. published
in Science suggests that in primates, adult neural stem cells are allocated
during early corticogenesis. The study also provides evidence for the existence
of stem cells dispersed throughout the frontal cortex and striatum.


PMID: 11972951  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1328. Trends Neurosci. 2002 May;25(5):223-5.

Origin and molecular specification of oligodendrocytes in the telencephalon.

Qi Y(1), Stapp D, Qiu M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomical Sciences and Neurobiology, School of Medicine,
University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40241, USA.

Previous studies have demonstrated that oligodendrocytes in the spinal cord and
brainstem originate from restricted domains of ventral neuroepithelium under the 
influence of sonic hedgehog protein (SHH). However, the origin of
oligodendrocytes in the telencephalon, the most anterior part of the CNS, has not
been established. A recent study has precisely mapped the origin of telencephalic
oligodendrocytes to a small region of the ventral telencephalon in rodents, and
has presented evidence that telencephalic oligodendrogenesis is, like that of the
spinal cord, under the influence of SHH signaling.


PMID: 11972950  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1329. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):217-20.

Leonardo da Vinci's contributions to neuroscience.

Pevsner J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Kennedy Krieger Research Institute, 707 N. Broadway,
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. pevsner@jhmi.edu

Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519) made far-reaching contributions to many areas of
science, technology and art. Leonardo's pioneering research into the brain led
him to discoveries in neuroanatomy (such as those of the frontal sinus and
meningeal vessels) and neurophysiology (he was the first to pith a frog). His
injection of hot wax into the brain of an ox provided a cast of the ventricles,
and represents the first known use of a solidifying medium to define the shape
and size of an internal body structure. Leonardo developed an original,
mechanistic model of sensory physiology. He undertook his research with the broad
goal of providing physical explanations of how the brain processes visual and
other sensory input, and integrates that information via the soul.


PMID: 11998691  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1330. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):212-6.

Life span: getting the signal from the nervous system.

Wolkow CA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, Intramural Research Program, National Institute
on Aging, 5600 Nathan Shock Drive, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.
wolkowca@grc.nia.nih.gov

Life span is determined by both environmental and genetic influences. The
importance of genes is illustrated by the fact that single gene mutations extend 
life span in nematodes, fruit flies and mice. Recent reports reveal that the life
span of Caenorhabditis elegans is controlled by insulin-like signals from the
nervous system. Hormones that control life span have recently been identified in 
fruit flies and mice. These findings suggest that neuroendocrine pathways could
constitute an important determinant of life span across phylogeny. This review
examines the evidence for nervous system control of longevity and discusses the
implications for popular models for aging.


PMID: 11998690  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1331. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):206-12.

Vesicle pools and short-term synaptic depression: lessons from a large synapse.

Schneggenburger R(1), Sakaba T, Neher E.

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institut für Biophysikalische Chemie, Abteilung Membranbiophysik,
Am Fassberg, D-37077 Göttingen, Germany. rschneg@gwdg.de

Depletion of a pool of readily releasable vesicles during repetitive presynaptic 
activity is a candidate mechanism for the induction of short-term synaptic
depression. The large, calyx-type synaptic terminals in the brainstem auditory
pathway, and especially the calyx of Held, offer unique possibilities for
studying the cellular mechanisms leading to synaptic depression. Recent work at
these synapses using presynaptic whole-cell patch-clamp recordings has revealed a
large pool of readily releasable vesicles. During prolonged presynaptic
depolarization, vesicles are released in kinetically distinct phases, indicating 
heterogeneity of release probability between vesicles. Heterogeneity might endow 
synapses with a rapid phase of depression at the onset of activity, followed by
sustained and surprisingly large synaptic strength during the steady-state phase 
of depression. By influencing the synaptic output during repetitive activity,
vesicle pool dynamics are expected to modulate information processing in neuronal
networks of the CNS.


PMID: 11998689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1332. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):199-205.

Integration of sodium and osmosensory signals in vasopressin neurons.

Voisin DL(1), Bourque CW.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Physiologie Oro-Faciale, Faculté de Chirurgie Dentaire, 63000
Clermont Ferrand, France.

Vasopressin (antidiuretic hormone) release has been thought to be controlled by
interacting osmoreceptors and Na(+)-detectors for > 20 years. Only recently,
however, have molecular and cellular advances revealed how changes in the
external concentration of Na+ and osmolality are detected during acute and
chronic osmotic perturbations. In rat vasopressin-containing neurons, local
osmosensitivity is conferred by intrinsic stretch-inactivated cation channels and
by taurine release from surrounding glia. Na+ detection is accomplished by acute 
regulation of the permeability of stretch-inactivated channels and by changes in 
Na+ channel gene expression. These features provide a first glimpse of the
integrative processes at work in a central osmoregulatory reflex.


PMID: 11998688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1333. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):191-9.

Rho proteins, mental retardation and the cellular basis of cognition.

Ramakers GJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurons and Networks, Netherlands Institute for Brain Research, Graduate
School Neurosciences Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 33, 1105 AZ Amsterdam ZO, The
Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2002 Aug;25(8):432.

For several decades, it has been known that mental retardation (MR) is associated
with abnormalities in dendrites and dendritic spines. The recent cloning of seven
genes that cause nonspecific MR when mutated provides important insights in the
cellular mechanisms that result in the dendritic abnormalities associated with
MR. Three of the encoded proteins, oligophrenin 1, PAK3 and alpha PIX, interact
directly with Rho GTPases. Rho GTPases are key signaling proteins that integrate 
extracellular and intracellular signals to orchestrate coordinated changes in the
actin cytoskeleton essential for directed neurite outgrowth and the regulation of
synaptic connectivity. Although many details of the cell biology of Rho signaling
in the CNS are still unclear, a picture is unfolding showing how mutations that
alter Rho signaling result in abnormal neuronal connectivity and deficient
cognitive functioning in humans. Conversely, these findings illuminate the
cellular mechanisms underlying normal cognitive function.


PMID: 11998687  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1334. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):183-90.

Dynamic depolarization fields in the cerebral cortex.

Roland PE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Brain Research, Dept of Neuroscience, A3:3, Retzius vaeg 8,
Karolinska Institute, S-171 77 Stockholm, Sweden. per.roland@neuro.ki.se

Recent physiological evidence shows that in response to stimuli and preceding
motor activity, large fields of the upper layers of the cerebral cortex
depolarize. It is argued that this finding is a general one and that these
dynamic depolarization fields represent the computational elements of the
cerebral cortex. Each depolarization field engages many more neurons than do
columns and hyper-columns. These fields can be explained by cooperative neuronal 
computing in layers I-III of the cortex. In these layers, the computing modes
might be general for all parts of the cerebral cortex and be sufficiently
flexible to handle all sorts of cortical computations, including perception,
memory storage, memory retrieval, thought and the production of behavior.


PMID: 11998686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1335. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):180-1.

EphB and NMDA receptors: components of synaptic plasticity coming together.

Gerlai R.


PMID: 11998685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1336. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):180.

Protein synthesis during LTP: linking synaptic activity to translation.

Nguyen PV.


PMID: 11998684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1337. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):179.

Illuminating cracks in the fragile mind.

Haas K.


PMID: 11998683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1338. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):176-8.

Splitting the quantum: regulation of quantal release during vesicle fusion.

Burgoyne RD(1), Barclay JW.

Author information: 
(1)Physiological Laboratory, University of Liverpool, Crown Street, Liverpool, UK
L69 3BX. burgoyne@liverpool.ac.uk

One of the most enduring central hypotheses in neurobiology has been that
neurotransmission is determined by the quantal release of neurotransmitter. An
important assumption has been that quantal size (amount of transmitter released
per vesicle) is constant. Recent work has established that, for dense-core
granules, quantal size can be varied by stimulation frequency, changes in second 
messenger levels and modification of the proteins of the exocytotic machinery.
These data argue against the long-held belief in the universality of the quantal 
hypothesis, and raise important but controversial questions as to whether the
same mechanisms could also regulate release from synaptic vesicles and contribute
to synaptic plasticity.


PMID: 11998682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1339. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):173-5; discussion 175-6.

Glial cell migration directed by axon guidance cues.

Tsai HH(1), Miller RH.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurosciences, Case Western Reserve University, School of Medicine,
Cleveland, OH 44106, USA.

Widespread myelination by oligodendrocytes is essential for the normal
functioning of the vertebrate CNS. Oligodendrocyte precursors initially arise in 
restricted regions of the neuroepithelium and migrate relatively long distances
to their final destinations. The signals that guide this migration have remained 
poorly understood, but recent studies suggest that glial precursors use similar
molecular cues to those that guide axons through the complex terrain of the
developing CNS. For example, in the developing optic nerve, glial-precursor
migration from the brain towards the retina is guided by netrin-1 and semaphorin 
3a. These studies suggest a novel mechanism governing glial precursor migration
and provide new insights into development and the potential to direct CNS injury 
repair.


PMID: 11998681  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1340. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Apr;25(4):171-2.

Nicotinic receptors and hippocampal synaptic plasticity ... it's all in the
timing.

McGehee DS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anesthesia and Critical Care, University of Chicago, 5841 S. Maryland 
Ave, MC4028, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. dmcgehee@midway.uchicago.edu

As we learn more about the functional expression of nicotinic receptors in
specific brain regions such as the hippocampus, intriguing interactions are being
uncovered at the cellular and circuit levels. Recent work from John Dani's
laboratory provides important insights into how nicotinic receptors can modify
hippocampal synaptic plasticity in both positive and negative ways, and this
could help explain the role of nicotinic receptors in learning and memory.


PMID: 11998680  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1341. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):166-7.

Talk to the people.

Matfield M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Research Defence Society, 58 Great Marlborough Street, London, UK.
markmatfield@rds-online.org.uk

Recent opinion surveys suggest that the majority of the public is willing to
accept the use of animals in research if high standards of welfare and effective 
regulation are in place. The public appears unaware that such standards have
existed for some time. The scientific community should now re-focus its
communication efforts to include the ethics and animal welfare aspects of this
issue.


PMID: 11852150  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1342. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):160-5.

Location, location, location: a spatial view of neurotrophin signal transduction.

Heerssen HM(1), Segal RA.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Neurotrophins were originally identified as target-derived factors that regulate 
the survival and differentiation of innervating neurons. However, neurotrophins
can also be released by presynaptic cells to stimulate postsynaptic neurons.
Recent studies indicate that differences exist between the signaling pathways
activated by neurotrophin stimulation of nerve terminals (retrograde signaling)
and neurotrophin stimulation of cell bodies. Retrograde signaling relies on the
formation of signaling endosomes, vesicles containing activated Trk receptors and
their ligands. Signaling endosomes travel from the nerve terminals to remote cell
bodies, where they selectively activate a novel MAP kinase, Erk5, as well as PI3 
kinase, and thereby stimulate neuronal survival. The differences in the signaling
pathways activated by neurotrophins, which depends on the location of
stimulation, provide a mechanism by which neurons can interpret the 'where' as
well as the 'what' of growth factor stimulation.


PMID: 11852149  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1343. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):154-9.

Cytokine-induced sickness behaviour: mechanisms and implications.

Konsman JP(1), Parnet P, Dantzer R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Integrative Neurobiology, INRA-INSERM U 394, Rue Camille
Saint-Saens, Bordeaux, France.

Sickness behaviour represents the expression of the adaptive reorganization of
the priorities of the host during an infectious episode. This process is
triggered by pro-inflammatory cytokines produced by peripheral phagocytic cells
in contact with invading micro-organisms. The peripheral immune message is
relayed to the brain via a fast neural pathway and a slower humoral pathway,
resulting in the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines in macrophage-like
cells and microglia in the brain. The cellular and molecular components of this
previously unsuspected system are being progressively identified. These advances 
are opening new avenues for understanding brain disorders, including depression.


PMID: 11852148  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1344. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):150-4.

Small is not beautiful: antagonizing functions for the prion protein PrP(C) and
its homologue Dpl.

Behrens A(1), Aguzzi A.

Author information: 
(1)Mammalian Genetics Laboratory, Imperial Cancer Research Fund, 44 Lincoln's Inn
Fields, London, UK.

A conformational variant of the normal prion protein PrP(C) is believed to be
identical to PrP(Sc), the agent that causes prion diseases. Recently, a novel
protein, named Doppel (Dpl), was identified that shares significant biochemical
and structural homology with PrP(C). In specific strains of PrP(C)-deficient
mouse lines, Dpl is overexpressed and causes a neurological disease. Dpl
neurotoxicity is counteracted and prevented by PrP(C), but the mechanism of
antagonistic PrP(C)-Dpl interaction remains elusive. In contrast to its homologue
PrP(C), initial studies suggest that Dpl is dispensable for prion disease
progression and for the generation of PrP(Sc). Although we are only beginning to 
understand its function, the discovery of Dpl has already provided some answers
to long-standing questions and is transforming our understanding of prion
biology.


PMID: 11852147  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1345. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):145-9.

Ephrin-As as receptors in topographic projections.

Knöll B(1), Drescher U.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Developmental Neurobiology, King's College London, 4th Floor,
New Hunt's House, London, UK.

The Eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases and their 'ligands', the ephrins,
have been implicated in a large number of developmental processes, such as
boundary formation, cell migration, axon guidance and vasculogenesis. A
characteristic of the EphB subclass is that both EphBs and transmembrane-anchored
ephrin-Bs function as receptors and as ligands, a phenomenon commonly described
as 'bi-directional signalling'. Here we review recent data indicating that EphA
receptors and glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored ephrin-As can also
mediate bi-directional signalling. Moreover, characterization of the expression
of ephrin-As on axons of the retinotectal and vomeronasal projections suggests
that the EphA subfamily is involved in both repulsive and attractive guidance
mechanisms during establishment of neuronal connections.


PMID: 11852146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1346. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):140-4.

Mossy cells in epilepsy: rigor mortis or vigor mortis?

Ratzliff Ad(1), Santhakumar V, Howard A, Soltesz I.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of California, Irvine 92697-1280,
USA.

Mossy cells are bi-directionally connected through a positive feedback loop to
granule cells, the principal cells of the dentate gyrus. This recurrent circuit
is strategically placed between the entorhinal cortex and the hippocampal CA3
region. In spite of their potentially pro-convulsive arrangement with granule
cells, mossy cells have not been seriously considered to promote seizures,
because mossy cells, allegedly one of the most vulnerable cell types in the
entire mammalian brain, have long been 'known' to die en masse in epilepsy.
However, new data suggest that rumors of the rapid demise of the mossy cells
might have been greatly exaggerated.


PMID: 11852145  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1347. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):137.

Amyloid beta protein forms ion channels.

Plein H.


PMID: 11852144  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1348. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):136.

Afraid of complications in gene targeting? Anxiety plays a role!

Gerlai R.


PMID: 11852142  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1349. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):135-6.

Neurogenetics: white matter matters.

Mattson MP.


PMID: 11852141  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1350. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):135.

Tuning of cortical neurons to behaviorally salient acoustic signals.

Nguyen PV.


PMID: 11852140  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1351. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):131-4.

Of layers and spheres: the reaggregate approach in tissue engineering.

Layer PG(1), Robitzki A, Rothermel A, Willbold E.

Author information: 
(1)Darmstadt University of Technology, Faculty of Biology, Developmental Biology 
& Neurogenetics, Schnittspahnstrasse 3, D-64287 Darmstadt, Germany.
layer@bio.tu-darmstadt.de

The reaggregate approach involves the regeneration of histotypical
three-dimensional spheres from dispersed cells of a given tissue in suspension
culture. Reaggregated spheres are used as tumour, genetic, toxicological,
biohybrid and neurosphere models, and often replace animal experimentation. A
particularly instructive example is the use of reaggregation to regenerate
complete laminar tissue from avian embryonic retina. By revealing constraints of 
layered tissue formation, such retinal spheres could be instrumental for
regenerative medicine, including stem cell-based tissue engineering.


PMID: 11852139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1352. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):129-31.

Developing concepts in neural stem cells.

Dietrich J(1), Easterday MC.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biomedical Genetics, University of Rochester, 601 Elmwood Avenue, Box 
633, Rochester, NY 14642, USA. joergD@URMC.rochester.edu

Stem Cells in the Mammalian Brain: the 4th Brain Research Interactive Symposium, 
at the 2001 Annual Conference of the Society for Neuroscience, San Diego, CA, USA
from November 8-10 2001.


PMID: 11852138  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1353. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):127-9.

Autoimmunity and inflammation in the peripheral nervous system.

Willison H(1), Stoll G, Toyka KV, Berger T, Hartung HP.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, University of Glasgow, UK.

Peripheral Nerve Society Biennial Meeting, organized in conjunction with the
Austrian Federal Ministry of Education, Research and Culture, held at Telfs,
Tyrol, Austria from 8-12 September 2001.


PMID: 11852137  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1354. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):124-6.

Rhodopsin phosphorylation: from terminating single photon responses to
photoreceptor dark adaptation.

Arshavsky VY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School and the Massachusetts Eye and
Ear Infirmary, Boston, MA 02114, USA. vadim_arshavsky@meei.harvard.edu

Rhodopsin phosphorylation has provided one of the first examples of the
ubiquitous regulatory pattern of specific kinases downregulating the activity of 
G-protein-coupled receptors. However, only recently have studies in living
animals allowed us to consider the role of rhodopsin phosphorylation in a broader
spectrum of visual functions, ranging from the ability of rods to generate
reproducible electrical responses to their ability to adapt to darkness after
substantial light exposures.


PMID: 11852136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1355. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):121-3; discussion 123-4.

'...and C is for Clioquinol' - the AbetaCs of Alzheimer's disease.

Melov S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Buck Institute for Age Research, 8001 Redwood Blvd, Novato, CA 94945, USA.
smelov@buckinstitute.org

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating age-related neurodegenerative disorder 
that has been intensively studied over the last several years. In vitro and in
vivo studies have led to an understanding of some of the physico-chemical
properties of amyloid, a well-characterized hallmark of AD. Clioquinol is a drug 
that acts on amyloid by perturbing amyloid's metallo-chemistry, and Clioquinol
treatment has been shown to be beneficial in a mouse model of AD. This short
review examines the recent studies relating to Clioquinol and AD, and anticipates
the imminent results of a Phase II trial of Clioquinol in AD, due in March 2002.


PMID: 11852134  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1356. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Mar;25(3):119-21.

Towards the comprehension of genetic mechanisms controlling brain morphogenesis.

Simeone A(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Developmental Neurobiology, New Hunt's House, 4th Floor, King's
College London, Guy's Campus, London Bridge, London, UK.
antonio.simeone@kcl.ac.uk

Over the past few years, a huge amount of work has provided mouse mutants for
many genes required for regionalization of the developing brain. This remarkable 
work now offers the opportunity of unmasking new and unexpected gene functions
that underlie a complex network of molecular interactions.


PMID: 11852133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1357. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):108-15.

Gap junctions and motor behavior.

Kiehn O(1), Tresch MC.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institutet, Retzius Vag 8, S-171 77,
Stockholm, Sweden. Ole.Kiehn@neuro.ki.se

The production of any motor behavior requires coordinated activity in motor
neurons and premotor networks. In vertebrates, this coordination is often assumed
to take place through chemical synapses. Here we review recent data suggesting
that electrical gap-junction coupling plays an important role in coordinating and
generating motor outputs in embryonic and early postnatal life. Considering the
recent demonstration of a prevalent expression of gap-junction proteins and
gap-junction structures in the adult mammalian spinal cord, we suggest that
neuronal gap-junction coupling might also contribute to the production of motor
behavior in adult mammals.


PMID: 11814564  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1358. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):103-7.

Intersections between neurobiology and oncology: tumor origin, treatment and
repair of treatment-associated damage.

Noble M(1), Dietrich J.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biomedical Genetics, University of Rochester Medical Center, 601
Elmwood Avenue, Box 633, Rochester, NY 14642, USA. mark_noble@urmc.rochester.edu

The number of potentially intimate relationships between brain tumors and the
precursor cells that contribute to normal central nervous system (CNS)
development and repair now appears to be somewhat larger than would have been
anticipated only a few years ago. It also appears that understanding the
vulnerabilities of CNS precursor cells, and of the specific cells that they
generate, might help us to reveal the biological basis for the cognitive
impairment that is increasingly recognized as an adverse effect of systemic
cancer therapies. Using neural stem cells as therapeutic vehicles in the
treatment of brain tumors could be modified to allow repair of the damage caused 
by brain tumors themselves and of the neurological impairment that is frequently 
associated with traditional cancer treatment approaches.


PMID: 11814563  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1359. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):96-102.

Neural encoding of behaviourally relevant visual-motion information in the fly.

Egelhaaf M(1), Kern R, Krapp HG, Kretzberg J, Kurtz R, Warzecha AK.

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Neurobiologie, Fakultät fär Biologie, Universität Bielefeld,
Postfach 10 01 31, D-33501, Bielefeld, Germany.
martin.egelhaaf@biologie.uni-bielefeld.de

Information processing in visual systems is constrained by the spatial and
temporal characteristics of the sensory input and by the biophysical properties
of the neuronal circuits. Hence, to understand how visual systems encode
behaviourally relevant information, we need to know about both the computational 
capabilities of the nervous system and the natural conditions under which animals
normally operate. By combining behavioural, neurophysiological and computational 
approaches, it is now possible in the fly to assess adaptations that process
visual-motion information under the constraints of its natural input. It is
concluded that neuronal operating ranges and coding strategies appear to be
closely matched to the inputs the animal encounters under behaviourally relevant 
conditions.


PMID: 11814562  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1360. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):89-96.

Sonic hedgehog in CNS development: one signal, multiple outputs.

Martí E(1), Bovolenta P.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biología Molecular de Barcelona (CID-CSIC), Jordi Girona 18,
08034, Barcelona, Spain. emgbmc@ibmb.csic.es

Sonic hedgehog (SHH) is a member of the hedgehog family of signalling molecules. 
SHH was initially described as a protein secreted from two signalling centres,
the notochord and the floor plate. Subsequently, it was identified as a morphogen
that is directly responsible for dorso-ventral patterning of the CNS. More
recently, additional sites of SHH expression have been identified and multiple
actions of SHH during CNS development discovered, including the specification of 
oligodendrocytes, proliferation of neural precursors and control of axon growth. 
Despite these various activities, it appears that the SHH signalling pathway is
well conserved and that the same mechanisms are utilized to achieve a variety of 
cellular responses. Therefore, a more precise understanding of the molecular
mechanisms that underlie the different responses to SHH signalling is the next
step in the study of this molecule and its role in the regulation of neural
development.


PMID: 11814561  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1361. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):84-8.

A rationale for the structure of color space.

Lotto RB(1), Purves D.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, 11-43 Bath Street, EC1V
9EL, London, UK. lotto@ucl.ac.uk

The colors perceived by humans in response to light stimuli are generally
described in terms of four color categories (reds, greens, blues and yellows),
the members of which are systematically arrayed around gray. This broadly
accepted description of color sensation differs fundamentally from the light that
induces it, which is neither 'circular' nor categorical. What, then, accounts for
these discrepancies between the structure of color experience and the physical
reality that underlies it? We suggest that these differences are based on two
related requirements for successful color vision: (1) that spectra be ordered
according to their physical similarities and differences; and (2) that this
ordering be constrained by the four-color map problem.


PMID: 11814560  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1362. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):79-84.

Alzheimer's disease and Down's syndrome: roles of APP, trophic factors and ACh.

Isacson O(1), Seo H, Lin L, Albeck D, Granholm AC.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroregeneration Laboratory, McLean Hospital, Program in Neuroscience and
Dept of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Belmont, MA 02478-9106, USA.
isacson@helix.mgh.harvard.edu

Recent therapeutic investigations of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been guided by
two seemingly opposed hypotheses: the amyloid cascade theory, which favors the
amyloid plaques as the cause of AD; and the cholinergic theory, which favors
cholinergic neuron loss as the cause. New investigations indicate that the
synthesis and processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) is linked to the 
trophic actions of nerve growth factor. A pathological cascade in both AD- and
Down's syndrome-related memory loss could be triggered by alterations in APP
processing or ACh-mediated neuronal function, or both, which in turn trigger the 
overexpression of amyloid beta, synaptic malfunction and trophic factor loss in
target regions. This eventually leads to synaptic and dendritic loss with age.


PMID: 11814559  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1363. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):77-8.

Repetition of memories lost or never acquired.

Izquierdo I, Vianna MR, Medina JH, Viola H.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):578-81.


PMID: 11814558  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1364. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):71-4.

Combinatorial RNAi: a method for evaluating the functions of gene families in
Drosophila.

Schmid A(1), Schindelholz B, Zinn K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125,
USA. Aloisia.T.Schmid@am.pnu.com

Individual members of gene families often have partially redundant functions
during nervous system development, making conventional genetic analysis
problematic. Here we review experiments showing that several genes can be
silenced together by injection of double-stranded RNAs into wild-type Drosophila 
embryos. By dye-labeling single neuroblasts in injected embryos, the effects of
multigene silencing on individual CNS axon pathways can now be examined.


PMID: 11814553  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1365. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):69-71.

The ins and outs of brain-barrier mechanisms.

Dziegielewska KM(1), Saunders NR.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pathology, University of Tasmania, GPO Box 252-29, Hobart, 7001,
Tasmania, Australia. Katarzyna.Dziegelewska@utas.edu.au

The 34th International Union of Physiological Sciences Congress, Satellite
Symposium on 'Blood-brain barrier mechanisms from molecule to patient' was held
at Freycinet Lodge, Tasmania, Australia from 21-24 August 2001.


PMID: 11814551  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1366. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):67-8; discussion 69.

Measuring our natural painkiller.

Derbyshire SW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, University of Pittsburgh
Medical Center, 200 Lothrop Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA.
derbyshiresw@anes.upmc.edu

Studies of the brain during noxious experience converge on the anterior cingulate
cortex as a key region in the processing of pain. A recent exciting study extends
this understanding to include the anterior cingulate as a center for endogenous
opioid activation specific to negative pain affect.


PMID: 11814550  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1367. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):64-7.

Molecular morphogens for dendritic spines.

Ehlers MD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Box 3209, Durham, NC
27710, USA. ehlers@neuro.duke.edu

Three protein components of the postsynaptic density--Shank, Homer and SPAR--have
been found to regulate the structural and molecular organization of dendritic
spines. These new studies reveal linkages between receptor complexes, the actin
cytoskeleton and signaling molecules that help shape spines.


PMID: 11814549  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1368. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):61-4.

ArRAnging the hindbrain.

Gavalas A(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Developmental Neurobiology, King's College London, 4th Floor,
New Hunt's House, Guy's Campus, SE1 1UL, London, UK. anthony.gavalas@kcl.ac.uk

The retinoic acid (RA)-dependent mechanisms that orchestrate the development of
the hindbrain have been the focus of intense studies over the last decade. A wide
range of model systems and experimental approaches have been used to provide
important insights into hindbrain patterning. A recent paper could help to unify 
seemingly disparate observations across species and experimental approaches.
Specification of the entire caudal hindbrain is fully dependent on retinoic acid,
and specification of individual rhombomeres (r) follows a strict rostrocaudal
sequence at precise developmental time windows. Progressively higher RA
signalling is necessary for assigning more posterior territories. Complete RA
deficiency results in the caudal hindbrain assuming an r4-like identity, which is
postulated to be the hindbrain ground state.


PMID: 11814548  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1369. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):51-7.

Drawing a spark from darkness: John Walsh and electric fish.

Piccolino M(1), Bresadola M.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia, Università di Ferrara, Via Borsari 46, 44100,
Ferrara, Italy. marco.piccolino@unife.it

John Walsh's research on electric fish, carried out between 1772 and 1775, proved
fundamental for demonstrating that electricity might be involved in animal
physiology, and, moreover, in favouring a period of great progress in both the
physiology and physics of electrical phenomena. However, Walsh is hardly known to
modern neuroscientists and is largely neglected by science historians also. One
of the reasons for this neglect is that he never published his 'crucial
experiment', that is the production of a spark from a discharge of the electric
eel.


PMID: 11801339  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1370. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):45-50.

Hormonal and genetic influences on arousal--sexual and otherwise.

Pfaff D(1), Frohlich J, Morgan M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology and Behavior, The Rockefeller University, Box 275, 
1230 York Avenue, New York, NY 10021-6399, USA. pfaff@rockvax.rockefeller.edu

Genetic influences on lordosis, a mammalian social behavior, are amenable for
study because of the relative simplicity of both stimuli and response. The neural
circuit for lordosis involves a supraspinal loop, which is controlled by an
estrogen- and progesterone-dependent signal from the medial hypothalamus and
results in heightened sexual motivation. In turn, this involves elevated states
of arousal, defined by increased sensory alertness, motor activity and emotional 
reactivity. Mice in which the gene encoding the alpha form of the estrogen
receptor (ERalpha) has been knocked out show that ERalpha is crucial for lordosis
behavior. Comparing ERalpha-, ERbeta- and double knockouts reveals that different
patterns of sexual behaviors in mice require different patterns of ER activity.
Understanding how hormonal and genetic effects on deep motivational and arousal
processes contribute to their effects on specific sexual and aggressive behaviors
pose significant challenges for mouse functional genomics.


PMID: 11801338  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1371. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):38-45.

Neuronal injury in bacterial meningitis: mechanisms and implications for therapy.

Nau R(1), Brück W.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, University of Göttingen, University Hospital,
Robert-Koch-Str. 40, D-37075, Göttingen, Germany. rnau@gwdg.de

In bacterial meningitis, long-term neurological sequelae and death are caused
jointly by several factors: (1) the systemic inflammatory response of the host,
leading to leukocyte extravasation into the subarachnoid space, vasculitis, brain
edema and secondary ischemia; (2) stimulation of resident microglia within the
CNS by bacterial compounds; and (3) possible direct toxicity of bacterial
compounds on neurons. Neuronal injury is mediated by the release of reactive
oxygen intermediates, proteases, cytokines and excitatory amino acids, and is
executed by the activation of transcription factors, caspases and other
proteases. In experimental meningitis, dexamethasone as an adjunct to antibiotic 
treatment leads to an aggravation of neuronal damage in the hippocampal
formation, suggesting that corticosteroids might not be the ideal adjunctive
therapy. Several approaches that interfere selectively with the mechanisms of
neuronal injury are effective in animal models, including the use of
nonbacteriolytic protein synthesis-inhibiting antibiotics, antioxidants and
inhibitors of transcription factors, matrix metalloproteinases, and caspases.


PMID: 11801337  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1372. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):32-8.

Generating neuronal diversity in the retina: one for nearly all.

Marquardt T(1), Gruss P.

Author information: 
(1)Salk Institute for Biological Studies, GEL-P, 10010 North Torrey Pines Road,
La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. marquardt@salk.edu

Visual perception of our environment essentially depends on the correct assembly 
of seven principal cell types into the functional architecture of the
neuroretina. During retinogenesis these cell types derive from a common
population of multipotent retinal progenitor cells (RPCs) residing in the inner
layer of the optic cup. In contrast to other well studied regions of the
developing CNS, retinal cell diversification is apparently not achieved by
spatial prepatterning into distinct progenitor domains, but rather by the
sequential production of cell types in a defined histogenetic order. Several
lines of evidence suggest that this observation reflects substantial intrinsic
changes in the retinogenic potential of RPCs. Recent advances, however, point at 
the existence of a common molecular framework underlying the retinogenic
potential of RPCs throughout retinal neurogenesis.


PMID: 11801336  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1373. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):27-31.

How well do we understand the neural origins of the fMRI BOLD signal?

Arthurs OJ(1), Boniface S.

Author information: 
(1)Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre, University of Cambridge, Box 65, Addenbrooke's
Hospital, Hills Road, CB2 2QQ, Cambridge, UK.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2002 Mar;25(3):169.

The successful use of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) as a way of
visualizing cortical function depends largely on the important relationships
between the signal observed and the underlying neuronal activity that it is
believed to represent. Currently, a relatively direct correlation seems to be
favoured between fMRI signals and population synaptic activity (including
inhibitory and excitatory activity), with a secondary and potentially more
variable correlation with cellular action potentials.


PMID: 11801335  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1374. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):22-6.

Alzheimer's disease-do tauists and baptists finally shake hands?

Mudher A(1), Lovestone S.

Author information: 
(1)Depts of Neuroscience and Psychological Medicine, Institute of Psychiatry, De 
Crespigny Park, SE5 8AF, London, UK.

The amyloid cascade hypothesis has been the predominant model of molecular
pathogenesis in Alzheimer's disease. The finding of tau mutations in other
dementias has added weight to the hypothesis as it suggests that tau-pathology is
a downstream but essential part of the dementing process. However, some
observations remain difficult to reconcile with the hypothesis. In transgenic
mice, for example, amyloid generation does not induce the predicted cascade and
in man, plaques and tangles are separated temporally and spatially. One
alternative possibility is that some common factor, loss of wnt signalling for
example, might induce both plaques and tangles.


PMID: 11801334  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1375. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):20-1.

Do white cells matter in white-matter damage?

Crawford CL.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):320-4.


PMID: 11801332  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1376. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):13-5.

Buenos Aires: Tango makes way for science.

Morgan B(1), Rubinstein M.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Programme, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, 384 Victoria St,
Darlinghurst, NSW 2010, Australia. b.morgan@garvan.org.au

The Joint International and American Neurochemistry Society Meeting was held, in 
collaboration with SAN (Sociedad Argentina de Neuroquímica), in Buenos Aires,
Argentina from 26-31 August 2001.


PMID: 11801327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1377. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):12-3.

Synaptic transmission on the Barrier Reef.

Redman SJ(1), Walmsley B.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, John Curtin School of Medical Research, Australian
National University, GPO Box 334, Canberra, ACT 2601, Australia.
steve.redman@anu.edu.au

The IUPS Satellite Symposium on Synaptic Transmission in the Central Nervous
System was held on Heron Island, Australia from 3-6 September 2001.


PMID: 11801326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1378. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):10-1.

Hedgehog patterns midbrain ARChitecture.

Machold R(1), Fishell G.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Genetics Program and the Dept of Cell Biology, The Skirball
Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, NYU Medical Center, 540 First Avenue, NY
10016, USA.

Recent work from Agarwala et al. has uncovered exquisite ventral patterning in
the mesencephalon. Using electroporation in chicks, they show that ectopic
expression of Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) in dorsal mesencephalon can recapitulate this 
patterning in its entirety. These results are discussed in the context of the
purported role of Shh as a morphogen.


PMID: 11801325  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1379. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):8-10.

Cdk5 sinks into ALS.

Patzke H(1), Tsai LH.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pathology, Harvard Medical School and Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Recent research points to an involvement of deregulated cdk5 activity in the
pathogenesis of mutant SOD1-mediated disease. In addition, inhibition of this
activity might promote motor neuron survival. These observations have opened the 
door to further research into the role of cdk5 in ALS and other neurodegenerative
diseases.


PMID: 11801324  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1380. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):7.

Response: Glial processes are glued to synapses via Ca(2+)-permeable glutamate
receptors. Response from Seiji Ozawa.

Ozawa S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gunma University School of Medicine, 371-8511, Maebashi, Japan.
ozawas@med.gunma-u.ac.jp

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):5-6.


PMID: 11801323  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1381. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):5-6.

Glial processes are glued to synapses via Ca(2+)-permeable glutamate receptors.

Watanabe M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy, Hokkaido University School of Medicine, 060-8638, Sapporo,
Japan. watamasa@med.hokudai.ac.jp

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):7.

Bergmann glia in the cerebellum elaborately ensheathe Purkinje cell dendrites and
synapses, and express high levels of Ca(2+)-permeable glutamate receptors
(GluRs). Suppression of the Ca(2+) permeability by virus-mediated GluR2 transfer 
has revealed that GluR-mediated Ca(2+) signaling is essential to maintain both
structural and functional connections between the glial cell and the
glutamatergic synapses.


PMID: 11801322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1382. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):2-5.

Nodes of Ranvier come of age.

Salzer JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Cell Biology, Neurology and the Kaplan Cancer Center, New York
University Medical Center, 550 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016, USA.
jim.salzer@med.nyu.edu

Sodium channel subtypes are frequently coexpressed within neurons. Recent studies
demonstrate that targeting of specific channel subtypes to distinct membrane
domains of axons is regulated by local signals from myelinating glia; they also
show that channel subtypes are sequentially expressed at nodes of Ranvier,
indicating an unexpected regulation in the composition of these domains.


PMID: 11801321  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1383. Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):1-2.

Sleep on it: cortical reorganization after-the-fact.

Hoffman KL(1), McNaughton BL.

Author information: 
(1)ARL Division of Neural Systems, Memory and Aging, University of Arizona, 384
Life Sciences North, Tucson, AZ 85719, USA. kari@nsma.arizona.edu

Sleep can facilitate memory formation, but its role in cortical plasticity is
poorly understood. A recent study found that sleep, following monocular
deprivation (MD), facilitated cortical changes in ocular dominance. The magnitude
of plasticity was similar to that observed after continued MD, and larger than
that seen after sleep deprivation in darkness, suggesting that sleep per se
enables mechanisms of cortical plasticity. Experience-dependent plasticity during
sleep could be part of a more global process of memory consolidation.


PMID: 11801320  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1384. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):726-31.

The sleep switch: hypothalamic control of sleep and wakefulness.

Saper CB(1), Chou TC, Scammell TE.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Program in Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School, Beth
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA.
csaper@caregroup.harvard.edu

More than 70 years ago, von Economo predicted a wake-promoting area in the
posterior hypothalamus and a sleep-promoting region in the preoptic area. Recent 
studies have dramatically confirmed these predictions. The ventrolateral preoptic
nucleus contains GABAergic and galaninergic neurons that are active during sleep 
and are necessary for normal sleep. The posterior lateral hypothalamus contains
orexin/hypocretin neurons that are crucial for maintaining normal wakefulness. A 
model is proposed in which wake- and sleep-promoting neurons inhibit each other, 
which results in stable wakefulness and sleep. Disruption of wake- or
sleep-promoting pathways results in behavioral state instability.


PMID: 11718878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1385. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):719-25.

Molecular physiology and pathophysiology of tight junctions in the blood-brain
barrier.

Huber JD(1), Egleton RD, Davis TP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, The University of Arizona College of Medicine,
Tucson, AZ 85724, USA.

Disruption of the tight junctions (TJs) of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a
hallmark of many CNS pathologies, including stroke, HIV encephalitis, Alzheimer's
disease, multiple sclerosis and bacterial meningitis. Furthermore,
systemic-derived inflammation has recently been shown to cause BBB tight
junctional disruption and increased paracellular permeability. The BBB is capable
of rapid modulation in response to physiological stimuli at the cytoskeletal
level, which enables it to protect the brain parenchyma and maintain a
homeostatic environment. By allowing the "loosening" of TJs and an increase in
paracellular permeability, the BBB is able to "bend without breaking"; thereby,
maintaining structural integrity.


PMID: 11718877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1386. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):713-9.

Molecular basis of aggression.

Nelson RJ(1), Chiavegatto S.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA.
rnelson@osu.edu

Recent pharmacological and genetic studies have dramatically expanded the list of
neurotransmitters, hormones, cytokines, enzymes, growth factors, and signaling
molecules that influence aggression. In spite of this expansion, serotonin (5-HT)
remains the primary molecular determinant of inter-male aggression, whereas other
molecules appear to act indirectly through 5-HT signaling. We review evidence of 
interactions among these molecules and aggressive behavior. Slight modulations in
5-HT levels, turnover, and metabolism, or in receptor subtype activation,
density, and binding affinity affect aggression. Activation of specific 5-HT
receptors evokes distinct, but highly interacting, second messenger systems and
multiple effectors. Understanding the interactions between 5-HT receptor subtypes
should lead to novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of aggression.


PMID: 11718876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1387. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):706-12.

Viral-based gene transfer to the mammalian CNS for functional genomic studies.

Janson CG(1), McPhee SW, Leone P, Freese A, During MJ.

Author information: 
(1)CNG Gene Therapy Center, Jefferson Medical College, 1025 Walnut Street, Suite 
511, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. cjanson@hotmail.com

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2002 Jan;25(1):59.

A fundamental problem in neuroscience has been the creation of suitable in vivo
model systems to study basic neurological phenomena and pathology of the central 
nervous system (CNS). Somatic cell genetic engineering with viral vectors
provides a versatile tool to model normal brain physiology and a variety of
neurological diseases.


PMID: 11718875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1388. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):700-5.

Neuroprotective peptide drug delivery and development: potential new
therapeutics.

Gozes I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Clinical Biochemistry, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel Aviv
University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel. igozes@post.tau.ac.il

Alzheimer's disease and related neurodegenerative disorders are prevalent among
the elderly and might be considered as the plague of the 21st century. It is thus
imperative to find cures for these conditions. The use of nerve growth factor
proteins as neuroprotective therapeutics is limited by their hindered mobility
through the blood-brain barrier. Peptides provide an attractive alternative.
However, do peptide derivatives retain the activity of the entire protein? Are
they stable? Would peptides cross the blood-brain barrier and what are the
potential side effects? Examples are put forth to strengthen our opinion that
peptides are important candidates for future drug development.


PMID: 11718874  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1389. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):695-700.

Gene therapy against neurological insults: sparing neurons versus sparing
function.

Dumas TC(1), Sapolsky RM.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biological Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
tedd1@stanford.edu

Increasing knowledge of neuron death mediators has led to gene therapy techniques
for neuroprotection. Overexpression of numerous genes enhances survival after
necrotic or neurodegenerative damage. Nonetheless, although encouraging, little
is accomplished if a neuron is spared from death, but not from dysfunction. This 
article reviews neuroprotection experiments that include some measure of
function, and synthesizes basic principles relating to its maintenance.
Variations in gene delivery systems, including virus-type and latency between
damage onset and vector delivery, probably impact the therapeutic outcome.
Additionally, functional sparing might depend on factors related to insult
severity, neuron type involved or the step in the death cascade that is targeted.


PMID: 11718873  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1390. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):687-90.

Neuropeptides: brain messengers of many faces.

Gozes I(1), Brenneman DE, Geppetti P, Kastin AJ, Mains RE, Moody TW, Seroogy K,
Spier AD, Zimmermann M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Clinical Biochemnistry, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv
University, Tel Aviv 69978, Israel. igozes@post.tau.ac.il

Neuropeptides 2001, 2nd Joint Meeting of the European Neuropeptide Club and the
American Summer Neuropeptide Conference (11th Annual Meeting). 6-11 May 2001 with
Satellite Symposium, Israeli-French Symposium, Israel Ministry of Science,
Culture and Sport, 6 May 2001, held at Maale Hachmicha and Tel Aviv University,
Israel.


PMID: 11718856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1391. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):685-6.

Peering into early neurogenesis with embryonic stem cells.

Xian HQ(1), Gottlieb DI.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Box 8108, Washington University School of
Medicine, 660 S. Euclid Avenue, St Louis, MO 63110, USA.

Embryonic stem (ES) cells transplanted into the early mouse embryo have the
capacity to differentiate into all cell types of the nervous system. A simplified
culture system has been developed in which single ES cells transform into neural 
progenitor cells that go on to form neurospheres. This system is ideally suited
for mechanistic studies of the earliest stages of neurogenesis. In this model,
signaling via fibroblast growth factor and bone morphogenetic protein family
members is important for the first steps of neural progenitor differentiation.


PMID: 11718855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1392. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):683-4; discussion 684-5.

BDNF as an anterophin; a novel neurotrophic relationship between brain neurons.

Nawa H(1), Takei N.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Molecular Neurobiology, Brain Research Institute, Niigata
University, 951-8585 Japan. hnawa@bri.niigata-u.ac.jp

Studies of the peripheral nervous system have led to the concept of
target-derived neurotrophic support. Neurotrophic factors such as nerve growth
factor are now known to act as retrograde trophic factors--retrophins--that are
produced in the target cells and released to presynaptic neurons. However, using 
brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) tagged with green-fluorescent protein to
monitor the subcellular dynamics of BDNF in neurites, Tsumoto and colleagues have
provided persuasive visual evidence that BDNF can be released at the synapses of 
brain neurons in an activity-dependent manner to act on postsynaptic neurons.
Accordingly, BDNF serves as an anterophin to regulate postsynaptic development
and plasticity in the central nervous system.


PMID: 11718853  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1393. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):680-2.

Caught in the matrix: how vitronectin controls neuronal differentiation.

Wechsler-Reya RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology and Cancer Biology, Duke University Medical Center,
Durham, NC 27710, USA. rw.reya@duke.edu

Cerebellar granule cells are the most abundant neurons in the brain and are
crucial to the circuitry that controls motor coordination. The proliferation of
granule cell precursors (GCPs) is controlled by the secreted signaling molecule
Sonic hedgehog (Shh), but the factors that regulate GCP differentiation remain a 
mystery. A recent study suggests that the extracellular matrix protein
vitronectin might tell GCPs when to stop dividing and begin differentiation.


PMID: 11718852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1394. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):678-80.

SNAREs take the stage: a prime time to trigger neurotransmitter secretion.

Bajjalieh S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology, University of Washington, Box 357280, Seattle, WA 98115,
USA. bajjalie@u.washington.edu

The secretion of neurotransmitters requires formation of the SNARE complex, a
protein complex comprised of vesicle and plasma-membrane proteins. Recent data
indicate that the SNARE complex forms in stages, suggesting that its assembly
might be one way by which synaptic efficacy is regulated.


PMID: 11718851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1395. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Dec;24(12):677-8.

Of delays, coincidences and efficient coding for space in the auditory pathway.

Schnupp J(1).

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3PT, Oxford, UK.
jan.schnupp@physiol.ox.ac.uk

To localize a sound source in space, the auditory system detects minute
differences in the arrival time of a sound between the two ears. It has long been
assumed that delay lines and coincidence detectors turn these time differences
into a labelled line code for source position, but recent studies challenge this 
view.


PMID: 11718850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1396. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11 Suppl):S7-14.

The role of the ubiquitin-proteasomal pathway in Parkinson's disease and other
neurodegenerative disorders.

Chung KK(1), Dawson VL, Dawson TM.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 
21287, USA.

A unifying feature of neurodegenerative diseases is the abnormal accumulation and
processing of mutant or damaged intra- and extracellular proteins; this leads to 
selective neuronal vulnerability and dysfunction. The ubiquitin-proteasomal
pathway (UPP) is poised to play a central role in the processing of damaged and
toxic proteins by ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis. The UPP can be overwhelmed in 
several neurodegenerative diseases. This results in the accumulation of toxic
proteins and the formation of inclusions, and ultimately to neuronal dysfunction 
and cell death. Further analysis of the cellular and molecular mechanisms by
which the UPP influences the detoxification of damaged and toxic proteins in
neurodegenerative diseases could provide novel concepts and targets for the
treatment and understanding of the pathogenesis of these devastating disorders.


PMID: 11881748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1397. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11 Suppl):S56-62.

Antisense as a neuroscience tool and therapeutic agent.

Estibeiro P(1), Godfray J.

Author information: 
(1)ExpressOn BioSystems, Edinburgh, UK. peter@expression.co.uk

Gene expression in the mammalian brain is highly complex and requires an
immensely powerful functional genomics tool to unravel it. Antisense has the
potential to meet this requirement, but has always been plagued by biological and
technological hurdles that have made the technology unreliable. With recent
progress in developing potent, low-toxicity nucleic acid chemistries and novel
drug delivery methods to cross the blood-brain barrier, the use of antisense is
gathering momentum.


PMID: 11881747  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1398. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11 Suppl):S49-55.

Engineered modeling and the secrets of Parkinson's disease.

Vila M(1), Wu DC, Przedborski S.

Author information: 
(1)Dept Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.

The development of new methods for manipulating the animal genome by transgenic
and gene-targeting technologies provides a unique means of studying the most
intimate aspects of countless human diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD).
In this review, the contribution of such engineered models to our current
understanding of the pathophysiology, etiology and pathogenesis of PD will be
discussed.


PMID: 11881746  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1399. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11 Suppl):S45-8.

Cholesterol, A beta and Alzheimer's disease.

Hartmann T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Biology Heidelberg (ZMBH), University of Heidelberg,
Germany. tobias.hartmann@mail.zmbh.uni-heidelberg.de

Statins have been used for many years for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia. 
They lower low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, increase high-density
lipoprotein (HDL) levels and are considered to be very safe. Recently, a set of
potential new applications was identified for statins. In the future, these drugs
could be used to treat Alzheimer's disease (AD). Past studies have suggested a
link between AD and lipids and a series of reports has recently been published
that significantly tightens this link and also provides some explanations at the 
cellular level. This review focuses on these recent developments and perspectives
that appear to link cholesterol, beta-amyloid and AD.


PMID: 11881745  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1400. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11 Suppl):S39-44.

Humoral autoimmunity as a mediator of CNS repair.

Bieber AJ(1), Warrington A, Pease LR, Rodriguez M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Mayo Clinic and Foundation, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.
bieber.allan@mayo.edu

Autoimmune responses directed against the central nervous system (CNS) have
generally been considered pathogenic in nature. Although there are several well
understood conditions in which this is the case, there is also a growing body of 
experimental evidence to show that both the cellular and humoral immune responses
can promote tissue repair following CNS injury and disease. Our laboratory has
used a mouse model of chronic demyelinating disease to characterize a class of
polyreactive IgM autoantibodies that react with oligodendrocyte surface antigens 
and promote myelin repair. By screening a large number of human monoclonal
antibodies, we have found that IgM antibodies that react with CNS tissue are
relatively common. Autoreactive IgM antibodies might constitute an endogenous
system for tissue repair, and therefore these antibodies could be of value as
therapeutic reagents.


PMID: 11881744  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1401. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11 Suppl):S32-8.

Huntington's disease: new hope for therapeutics.

McMurray CT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept Molecular Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, Mayo Clinic and
Foundation, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. mcmurray.cynthia@mayo.edu

Huntington's disease (HD) is one of eight progressive neurodegenerative disorders
in which the underlying mutation is a CAG expansion encoding a polyglutamine
tract. There are currently no cures or even effective therapies for HD. Effective
strategies have remained elusive because little is known about either the
mechanisms of expansion or the mechanism of polyglutamine-mediated neuronal
death. However, recent advances in understanding the basic mechanisms of
expansion and toxicity have renewed hope that a therapeutic strategy might
someday be possible. Strategies effective in the treatment of HD are likely to be
relevant in the treatment of a range of neurological and neurodegenerative
disorders.


PMID: 11881743  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1402. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11 Suppl):S21-31.

Molecular mechanisms of brain aging and neurodegenerative disorders: lessons from
dietary restriction.

Prolla TA(1), Mattson MP.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Genetics, University of Wisconsin, Madison 53706, USA.

The application of modern molecular and cell biology technologies to studies of
the neurobiology of aging provides a window on the molecular substrates of
successful brain aging and neurodegenerative disorders. Aging is associated with 
increased oxidative stress, disturbances in energy metabolism and
inflammation-like processes. Dietary restriction (DR) can extend lifespan and
might increase the resistance of the nervous system to age-related
neurodegenerative disorders. The neuroprotective effect of DR involves a
preconditioning response in which the production of neurotrophic factors and
protein chaperones is increased resulting in protection against oxyradical
production, stabilization of cellular calcium homeostasis, and inhibition of
apoptosis. DR might also enhance neurogenesis, synaptic plasticity and
self-repair mechanisms.


PMID: 11881742  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1403. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11 Suppl):S2-6.

Gamma-secretase: never more enigmatic.

Sisodia SS(1), Annaert W, Kim SH, De Strooper B.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular Neurobiology, Dept of Neurobiology, Pharmacology and
Physiology, The University of Chicago, IL 60637, USA.
ssisodia@drugs.bsd.uchicago.edu

It is widely believed that the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is
intimately, if not causatively, associated with the deposition of approximately 4
kDa beta-amyloid (A beta) peptides in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of
affected individuals. A beta peptides are liberated from transmembrane proteins, 
termed beta-amyloid precursor proteins (APP), by the concerted action of beta-
and gamma-secretase(s). Whereas the identity of beta-secretase is no longer in
question, the identity of gamma-secretase, which is responsible for the
intramembranous processing of APP, has never been more enigmatic. Considerable
evidence has accrued to impugn the presenilins (PS) as the executioners of
intramembranous processing of APP. Here, we summarize these observations and
review recent evidence that argues against the prevailing hypothesis that PS
function as gamma-secretases.


PMID: 11881741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1404. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11 Suppl):S15-20.

Superoxide dismutase and the death of motoneurons in ALS.

Beckman JS(1), Estévez AG, Crow JP, Barbeito L.

Author information: 
(1)Linus Pauling Institute, and Dept of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Oregon State
University, Corvallis 97331, USA. joe.beckman@orst.edu

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a lethal disease that is characterized by 
the relentless death of motoneurons. Mutations to Cu-Zn superoxide dismutase
(SOD), though occurring in just 2-3% of individuals with ALS, remain the only
proven cause of the disease. These mutations structurally weaken SOD, which
indirectly decreases its affinity for Zn. Zn-deficient SOD induces apoptosis in
motoneurons through a mechanism involving peroxynitrite. Importantly,
Zn-deficient wild-type SOD is just as toxic as Zn-deficient ALS mutant SOD,
suggesting that the loss of Zn from wild-type SOD could be involved in the other 
98% of cases of ALS. Zn-deficient SOD could therefore be an important therapeutic
target in all forms of ALS.


PMID: 11881740  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1405. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):673-4.

Viktor Hamburger (1900-2001).

Noden DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)College of Veterinary Medicine, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853-6401,
USA. dmn2@cornell.edu


PMID: 11672814  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1406. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):671-3.

Does the vagus nerve mediate the sixth sense?

Zagon A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept Anatomy and Developmental Biology, Royal Free and University College
Medical School, Rowland Hill Street, NW3 2PF, London, UK. aniko@rfc.ucl.ac.uk

Can sensations originating from the internal environment modulate attitude and
behaviour? Can the feedback about the operation of the viscera provide a calming 
and relaxing influence? Information from the chest and abdomen is delivered
continuously by the vagus nerve, the largest visceral sensory nerve in the body. 
Because various 'stress-related' diseases can be associated with impaired
functions in sensory vagal fibres, a better understanding of how sensory vagal
information is processed in the CNS might offer new strategies for the treatment 
and/or prevention of several disorders, including 'drug-resistant' forms of
eating disorder, anxiety, chronic depression and epilepsy. A neuronal circuitry
that has been suggested by experimental data to mediate sensory vagal inputs to
those brain areas that are involved in the generation of 'stress-related'
disorders is outlined.


PMID: 11672813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1407. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):665-70.

Restless AMPA receptors: implications for synaptic transmission and plasticity.

Lüscher C(1), Frerking M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology (APSIC), University of Geneva, 1211 4, Geneva,
Switzerland. Christine.Luscher@medecine.unige.ch

A central assumption in neurobiology holds that changes in the strength of
individual synapses underlie changes in behavior. This concept is widely accepted
in the case of learning and memory where LTP and LTD are the most compelling
cellular models. It is therefore of great interest to understand, on a molecular 
level, how the brain regulates the strength of neuronal connections. We review a 
large body of evidence in support of the very straightforward regulation of
synaptic strength by changing the number of postsynaptic receptors, and discuss
the molecular machinery required for insertion and removal of AMPA receptors.


PMCID: PMC2966497
PMID: 11672812  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1408. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):659-65.

The dephosphins: dephosphorylation by calcineurin triggers synaptic vesicle
endocytosis.

Cousin MA(1), Robinson PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Membrane Biology Group, Division of Biomedical and Clinical Laboratory
Sciences, University of Edinburgh, George Square, EH8 9XD, Edinburgh, UK.

When nerve terminals in the brain are stimulated, a group of phosphoproteins
called the dephosphins are coordinately dephosphorylated by calcineurin, the
Ca(2+)-dependent protein phosphatase. Amazingly, the seven presently known
dephosphins are not structurally related, yet each has been independently shown
to be essential for synaptic vesicle endocytosis (SVE). Nowhere else in biology
is there a similar example of the coordinated dephosphorylation of such a large
group of proteins each sharing roles in the same biological response. This
suggests that dephosphorylation and phosphorylation of the dephosphins is
essential for SVE. Recent studies in synaptosomes have confirmed this view, with 
calcineurin-mediated dephosphorylation of the dephosphins essential for
triggering SVE. The phosphorylation cycle of the dephosphins might regulate SVE
by targeting the proteins to sites of action and by stimulating the assembly of
several large essential endocytic protein complexes.


PMID: 11672811  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1409. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):654-9.

Making choices: the neurophysiology of visual-saccadic decision making.

Glimcher PW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, NY 10003, USA.
glimcher@cns.nyu.edu

Imagine the decisions you might make while playing a simple game like 'matching
pennies'. At each play, you and your opponent, say the mathematician John
vonNeumann, each lay down a penny heads or tails up. If both pennies show the
same side, vonNeumann wins, if not, you win. Before each play, you have the
subjective experience of deciding what to do: of choosing whether to play heads
or tails. Although decisions like these are not yet understood at a physiological
level, progress has been made towards understanding simple decision making in at 
least one model system: the primate neural architecture that uses visual data and
prior knowledge about patterns in the environment to select and execute saccades.
Both the visual system and the brainstem circuits that control saccadic eye
movements are particularly well understood, making it possible for physiologists 
to begin to study the connections between these sensory and motor processes at a 
level of complexity that would be impossible in other less well understood
systems.


PMID: 11672810  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1410. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):649-53.

Neonatal glucocorticoids and the developing brain: short-term treatment with
life-long consequences?

Bakker JM(1), van Bel F, Heijnen CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neonatology, Wilhelmina Children's Hospital of the University Medical 
Center, Lundlaan 6, 3584 EA, Utrecht, The Netherlands. j.m.bakker-2@wkz.azu.nl

Although synthetic glucocorticoids are frequently used in hospital for the
prevention of chronic lung disease in premature infants, major concern has arisen
about the possible long-term consequences of these treatments. Animal research
provides evidence for the idea that neonatal glucocorticoid treatment enhances
susceptibility to autoimmune disease in adult life. Altered functioning of the
hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis, and/or changes at higher brain levels might
underlie alterations in disease susceptibility.


PMID: 11672809  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1411. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):644-8.

Kinesin, dynein and neurofilament transport.

Shea TB(1), Flanagan LA.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Cellular Neurobiology and Neurodegeneration Research, Dept of
Biological Sciences, University of Massachusetts Lowell, 01854,
USA.Thomas_Shea@uml.edu

The recent demonstration that the fast axonal transport motors kinesin and dynein
participate in axonal transport of neurofilaments--known to undergo slow
transport--supports and extends recent studies indicating that some
neurofilaments exhibit alternating bursts of fast axonal transport interspersed
with periods of non-motility. In addition, these findings unify both certain
aspects of axonal transport and neurofilament biology. We discuss these data
herein in the context of both older and more recent studies of neurofilament
dynamics.


PMID: 11672808  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1412. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):637-43.

Limited numbers of recycling vesicles in small CNS nerve terminals: implications 
for neural signaling and vesicular cycling.

Harata N(1), Pyle JL, Aravanis AM, Mozhayeva M, Kavalali ET, Tsien RW.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Beckman Center, Stanford University
School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305-5345, USA.

The tiny nerve terminals of central synapses contain far fewer vesicles than
preparations commonly used for analysis of neurosecretion. Photoconversion of
vesicles rendered fluorescent with the dye FM1-43 directly identified vesicles
capable of engaging in exo-endocytotic recycling following stimulated Ca(2+)
entry. This recycling pool typically contained 30-45 vesicles, only a minority
fraction (15-20% on average) of the total vesicle population. The smallness of
the recycling pool would severely constrain rates of quantal neurotransmission if
classical pathways were solely responsible for vesicle recycling. Fortunately,
vesicles can undergo rapid retrieval and reuse in addition to conventional slow
recycling, to the benefit of synaptic information flow and neuronal signaling.


PMID: 11672807  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1413. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):633-4.

Zebrafish neurophysiology: 'swimming' in sync with gap junctions.

Nguyen PV.


PMID: 11672791  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1414. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):633.

It takes your breath away--NK1R ablation in the pre-Bötzinger complex.

Deuchars J, Deuchars SA.


PMID: 11672790  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1415. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):631-2.

Promising vistas in hydrocephalus and cerebrospinal fluid research.

Johanson CE(1), Jones HC.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Clin. Neurosciences, Brown University, School of Medicine, Providence,
RI 02903, USA. Conrad_Johanson@brown.edu


PMID: 11672789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1416. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):629-30.

Purines in portugal.

Stone TW(1), Zimmermann H, Lopes LV, Schaddelee MP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biomedical and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, UK.
T.W.Stone@bio.gla.ac.uk


PMID: 11672788  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1417. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):627-8.

Blind clocks reveal elusive light input pathway in Drosophila.

Shafer OT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Zoology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.
oshafer@u.washington.edu

Circadian clocks run too fast or too slow relative to the 24-hr period of the
solar day. For this reason, biological pacemakers rely on the cyclic nature of
the environment to entrain their oscillations. Such environmental cues, when used
as a reference for the time of day, are called Zeitgebers or time givers, and an 
understanding of how such cues impinge on the circadian pacemaker is crucial for 
our understanding of biological timekeeping.


PMID: 11672787  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1418. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):625-6.

shibire's enhancer is cancer's suppressor.

Deitcher D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology and Behavior, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA. 
dld14@cornell.edu

Reliable neurotransmitter release requires an adequate pool of synaptic vesicles.
These pools are maintained by the process of endocytosis. A recent paper revealed
that dynamin, a GTPase essential for endocytosis, is regulated by Abnormal wing
disc (Awd), a nucleoside diphosphate kinase which converts nucleoside
diphosphates to nucleoside triphosphates. This finding suggests that access to
GTP directly regulates endocytosis. In addition, awd is homologous to the tumor
suppressor gene nm23, further suggesting that dynamin might be involved in
tumorigenesis.


PMID: 11672786  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1419. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):623-5.

PICKing on transporters.

Deken SL(1), Beckman ML, Quick MW.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, 35294-0021, USA.

Plasma membrane neurotransmitter transporters are regulators of extracellular
transmitter levels in brain and are the primary sites of action for several drugs
of abuse and therapy. Studies are beginning to reveal how neurons use synaptic
machinery to modulate these regulators.


PMID: 11672785  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1420. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Nov;24(11):621-3.

Arc mRNA dynamics: return to sender--the NMDA receptor provides the targeting
address for Arc mRNA.

Martin KC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychiatry, UCLA Brain Research Institute, Gonda Building Rm 3506C,
695 Charles Young Dr Street, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1761, USA.
kcmartin@mednet.ucla.edu

The recently defined role for local protein synthesis during long-lasting
synaptic plasticity has focused attention on the mechanisms underlying dendritic 
mRNA localization. The mRNA encoded by the immediate-early gene Arc is not only
transported into dendrites, but localizes specifically to activated postsynaptic 
sites. This specific localization has now been shown to depend on local signaling
through the NMDA receptor.


PMID: 11672783  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1421. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):566-7.

Close correlation between fMRI and neural activity...or not?

Leslie RA.


PMID: 11603357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1422. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):617-20.

Environment complexity stimulates visual cortex neurogenesis: death of a dogma
and a research career.

Kaplan MS(1).

Author information: 
(1)marjiesk@home.com

Over the past few years, the classic idea that no new nerve cells are born in the
adult mammalian brain has finally and conclusively been refuted by the scientific
community. Yet, the first indications that neurogenesis occurs in the brain of
adult mammals were obtained using light and electron microscopy over two decades 
ago. Why this went unrecognized is described in a personal account by the
researcher who pioneered those studies: Michael Kaplan.


PMID: 11576677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1423. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):609-16.

Self-referent phenotype matching: theoretical considerations and empirical
evidence.

Hauber ME(1), Sherman PW.

Author information: 
(1)Department Neurobiology and Behavior, Seeley G. Mudd Hall, Cornell University,
Ithaca, NY 14853-2702, USA. meh20@cornell.edu

In most birds and mammals, young are raised in family groups. The phenotypes of
nestmates and parents are thus reliable cues for recognition of conspecifics and 
kin. However, in some species, young develop alone, or in broods of mixed
relatedness (e.g. because of multiple paternity or maternity), or among
heterospecifics or unrelated conspecifics (brood parasites). Under these
circumstances, the best referent (model) for discriminating close from distant
kin and heterospecifics from conspecifics might be one's own self. This
recognition process is known as self-referent phenotype matching. Here we review 
recent experimental evidence of self-referencing and suggest that behavioral
neuroscience can provide new tools and insights into how it works (its proximate 
mechanistic and ontogenetic bases) and why it exists (its adaptive significance).


PMID: 11576676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1424. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):602-8.

Structural complexity and functional diversity of endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)
stores.

Blaustein MP(1), Golovina VA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 655 W.
Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. mblauste@umaryland.edu

Considerable evidence, including recent direct observations, suggest that
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) Ca(2+) stores in neurons, glia, and other cell types, 
consists of spatially-distinct compartments that can be individually loaded and
unloaded. In addition, sub-plasmalemmal ('junctional') components of the ER (jER)
are functionally coupled to the overlying plasmalemmal (PL) microdomains in
PL-jER units named 'PLasmERosomes'. The PL microdomains and the jER contain
clusters of specific transport proteins that regulate Na(+) and Ca(2+)
concentrations in the tiny cytosolic space between the PL and jER. This
organization helps the ER to produce the many types of complex local and global
Ca(2+) signals that are responsible for the simultaneous control of numerous
neuronal and glial functions.


PMID: 11576675  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1425. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):595-601.

The thalamic matrix and thalamocortical synchrony.

Jones EG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience, University of California, Davis CA 95616, USA.
ejones@ucdavis.edu

High-frequency synchronous activity of neurons in the cerebral cortex and
thalamus is a concomitant of discrete conscious events. In the primate thalamus, 
a newly identified population of neurons provides a basis for this
synchronization. A matrix of calbindin-immunoreactive neurons extends throughout 
the thalamus and projects to superficial layers of cortex over wide areas,
unconstrained by boundaries between areas. In some nuclei, a core of
parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons is superimposed upon the matrix. Core neurons 
project in a topographically ordered fashion to middle layers of the cortex in an
area-specific manner. Matrix neurons, recruited by corticothalamic connections,
can disperse activity across cortical areas and thalamic nuclei. Their
superficial terminations can synchronize specific and nonspecific elements of the
thalamocortical network in coherent activity that underlies cognitive events.


PMID: 11576674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1426. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):589-95.

Neural activity: sculptor of 'barrels' in the neocortex.

Erzurumlu RS(1), Kind PC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Anatomy and Neuroscience Center, LSUHSC, New
Orleans, LA 70012, USA. rerzur@lsuhsc.edu

A major portion of the primary somatosensory cortex of rodents is characterized
by the discrete and patterned distribution of thalamocortical axons and layer IV 
granule cells ('barrels'), which correspond to the spatial distribution of
whiskers and sinus hairs on the snout. In recent years several mutant mouse
models began unveiling the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which these
patterns emerge presynaptically and are reflected postsynaptically. Neural
activity plays a crucial role in conferring presynaptic patterns to postsynaptic 
cells via neurotransmitter receptor-mediated intracellular signals. Here we
review recent evidence that is finally opening the doors to understanding the
cellular and molecular mechanisms of pattern formation in the neocortex.


PMCID: PMC3722604
PMID: 11576673  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1427. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):581-8.

Ischemic injury and faulty gene transcripts in the brain.

Liu PK(1), Grossman RG, Hsu CY, Robertson CS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030,
USA. philipl@bcm.tmc.edu

The brain has the highest metabolic rate of all organs and depends predominantly 
on oxidative metabolism as a source of energy. Oxidative metabolism generates
reactive oxygen species, which can damage all cellular components, including
protein, lipids and nucleic acids. The processes of DNA repair normally remove
spontaneous gene damage with few errors. However, cerebral ischemia followed by
reperfusion leads to elevated oxidative stress and damage to genes in brain
tissue despite a functional mechanism of DNA repair. These critical events occur 
at the same time as the expression of immediate early genes, the products of
which trans-activate late effector genes that are important for sustaining
neuronal viability. These findings open the possibility of applying genetic tools
to identify molecular mechanisms of gene repair and to derive new therapies for
stroke and brain injury.


PMCID: PMC2726704
PMID: 11576672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1428. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):578-81.

The neurobiology of learning and memory: some reminders to remember.

Cahill L(1), McGaugh JL, Weinberger NM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Neurobiology of Learning and Memory and Department of
Neurobiology and Behavior, Qureshey Research Laboratory, University of
California, Irvine, CA 92697-3800, USA. lfcahill@uci.edu

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2002 Feb;25(2):77-8.

We have learned much about the neurobiology of learning and memory in the past
100 years. We have also learned much about how we should, and should not,
investigate these complex processes. However, with the rapid recent growth in the
field and the influx of investigators not familiar with this past, these crucial 
lessons too often fail to guide the research of today. Here we highlight some
major lessons gleaned from this wealth of experience. These include the need to
carefully attend to the learning/performance distinction, to rely equally on
synthetic as well as reductionistic thinking, and to avoid the seduction of
simplicity. Examples in which the lessons of history are, and are not, educating 
current research are also given.


PMID: 11576671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1429. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):573-8.

Do active cerebral neurons really use lactate rather than glucose?

Chih CP(1), Lipton P, Roberts EL Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Geriatric Research, Education, and Clinical Center, and Research Office, Miami
VA Medical Center, Miami, FL 33125, USA.

Glucose has long been considered the substrate for neuronal energy metabolism in 
the brain. Recently, an alternative explanation of energy metabolism in the
active brain, the astrocyte-neuron lactate shuttle hypothesis, has received
attention. It suggests that during neural activity energy needs in glia are met
by anaerobic glycolysis, whereas neuronal metabolism is fueled by lactate
released from glia. In this article, we critically examine the evidence
supporting this hypothesis and explain, from the perspective of enzyme kinetics
and substrate availability, why neurons probably use ambient glucose, and not
glial-derived lactate, as the major substrate during activity.


PMID: 11576670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1430. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):570-2.

Vitamin D: the neglected neurosteroid?

McGrath J, Feron F, Eyles D, Mackay-Sim A.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):410-6.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):311-2.


PMID: 11576669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1431. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):567.

Untangling the enigmatic tau.

Allsopp TE.


PMID: 11576656  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1432. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):562-4.

A database generator for human brain imaging.

Roland P(1), Svensson G, Lindeberg T, Risch T, Baumann P, Dehmel A, Frederiksson 
J, Halldorson H, Forsberg L, Young J, Zilles K.

Author information: 
(1)Karolinska Institute, Sweden. Per.Roland@neuro.ki.se

Sharing scientific data containing complex information requires new concepts and 
new technology. NEUROGENERATOR is a database generator for the neuroimaging
community. A database generator is a database that generates new databases. The
scientists submit raw PET and fMRI data to NEUROGENERATOR, which then processes
the data in a uniform way to create databases of homogeneous data suitable for
data sharing, met-analysis and modelling the human brain at the systems level.
These databases are then distributed to the scientists.


PMID: 11576652  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1433. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):560-1.

LTP gets culture.

Salter MW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Programmes in Brain and Behaviour and Cell Biology, Hospital for Sick
Children, Toronto, Canada. mike.salter@utoronto.ca

In a recent breakthrough, a methodology has been developed for studying
persistent enhancement of excitatory synaptic transmission in primary cultures of
hippocampus. Results from the use of this method have already pointed to a
previously unsuspected differential role for synaptic versus extrasynaptic NMDA
receptors in lasting synaptic potentiation.


PMID: 11576651  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1434. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):557-9.

Susceptibility gene(s) for Alzheimer's disease on chromosome 10.

Lendon C(1), Craddock N.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, University of Birmingham, Queen Elizabeth
Psychiatric Hospital, Birmingham, UK B15 2QZ. c.l.lendon@bham.ac.uk

The majority of Alzheimer's disease is inherited in a complex manner involving
environmental factors and several genes. One of these genes is Apolipoprotein E
where the polymorphic allele (APOE epsilon 4) has been robustly shown to modify
risk and the course of Alzheimer's disease. The epsilon 4 allele however, only
accounts for approximately 50% of late onset Alzheimer's disease. Here we review 
three quite different approaches that have led to convincing evidence that there 
is at least one other susceptibility gene for complex inherited forms of
Alzheimer's disease on chromosome 10q. Two linkage studies give strong evidence
of a locus at almost exactly the same location: one using the amyloid beta
brain-deposited fragment of the amyloid precursor protein as a continuous
phenotype, and the other using a categorical disease phenotype. A third candidate
gene linkage and association analysis approach interestingly finds a maximum
signal approximately 35-60cM distal to the previous studies.


PMID: 11576650  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1435. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):555-7.

Dual use of the transcriptional repressor (CtBP2)/ribbon synapse (RIBEYE) gene:
how prevalent are multifunctional genes?

Piatigorsky J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular and Developmental Biology, National Eye Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. joramp@intra.nei.nih.gov

Vertebrates have ribbon synapses in the retina and in other sensory structures
that are specialized for rapid, tonic release of synaptic vesicles (1). The
lamellar sheets of the ribbon situated at right angles to the plasma membrane are
lined with synaptic vesicles that undergo exocytosis under the influence of
Ca(2+). Synaptic ribbons act as a conveyer belt to accelerate the release of this
ready supply of synaptic vesicles at the presynaptic membranes. Although the
protein composition of the terminals of ribbon synapses is generally similar to
that of ordinary synapses in nervous tissue, much less is known about the
composition of the ribbons themselves. RIM, a universal component of presynaptic 
active zones that interacts with rab3 on the synaptic vesicle, has been localized
to the ribbons (2). In addition, the kinesin motor protein, KIF3A, is associated 
with the ribbons and other organelles in presynaptic nerve terminals (3).
Recently, an approximately 120 kDa protein called RIBEYE has been identified in
purified ribbons of bovine retina. The RIBEYE cDNA was cloned and its gene
identified in the database.


PMID: 11576649  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1436. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):553-5.

Plasticity: downstream of glutamate.

Kind PC(1), Neumann PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Edinburgh University, Hugh Robson Building,
George Square, Edinburgh, UK EH8 9XD. pkind@ed.ac.uk

Glutamate neurotransmission is an essential component of many forms of neuronal
plasticity, however, the intracellular mechanisms that mediate plasticity are
only beginning to be elucidated. The emerging image of the NMDA receptor complex 
reminds us that the similarity between mechanisms of plasticity in various model 
systems is greater than their apparent differences. For example, the
cAMP-dependent protein kinase A signalling pathway is crucial for plasticity in a
variety of neuronal systems and across a wide variety of species.


PMID: 11576648  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1437. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):550-2.

Peripheral metabotropic glutamate receptors: fight the pain where it hurts.

Neugebauer V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurosciences and Marine Biomedical Institute, The
University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 77555-1069, USA.
voneugeb@utmb.edu

Recent anatomical and behavioral data show the expression of G-protein coupled
metabotropic glutamate receptors in the periphery on nociceptive primary afferent
nerve terminals, and provide evidence for a functional role of peripheral
metabotropic glutamate receptors in inflammatory pain. These findings have
important implications for new therapeutic strategies that target peripheral
metabotropic glutamate receptors for pain relief. They also alert us to the
necessity of assessing drug effects at different levels of the nervous system:
peripheral and central.


PMID: 11576647  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1438. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):549-50.

That's your left foot and...

Xu F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Yale Medical School, New Haven, CT 06510, 
USA. fuqianxu@hotmail.com

Olfaction involves pattern recognition processes: in the olfactory bulb each odor
is represented as a specific spatial activity pattern, serving as the basis for
downstream spatiotemporal encoding and odor perception. The principle of pattern 
generation, the general properties of the patterns and new evidence regarding the
functions of the patterns are discussed.


PMID: 11576646  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1439. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):500-1.

Movers and shapers--molecules regulating morphogenesis.

Tear G(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Centre for Developmental Neurobiology, Guy's Hospital Campus, King's
College, London, UK. guy.tear@kcl.ac.uk


PMID: 11552702  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1440. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):504-6.

Comparison of 2-D and 3-D counting: the need for calibration and common sense.

von Bartheld CS.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):51-61.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):376-7; author reply 378-80.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):377-80.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):375-6; author reply 378-80.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):11-7.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):374; author reply 378-80.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):374-5; author reply 378-80.


PMID: 11550662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1441. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):540-6.

Memory consolidation of Pavlovian fear conditioning: a cellular and molecular
perspective.

Schafe GE(1), Nader K, Blair HT, LeDoux JE.

Author information: 
(1)W.M. Keck Foundation, Laboratory of Neurobiology, Center for Neural Science,
New York University, New York, NY 10003, USA. schafe@cns.nyu.edu

Pavlovian fear conditioning has emerged as a leading behavioral paradigm for
studying the neurobiological basis of learning and memory. Although considerable 
progress has been made in understanding the neural substrates of fear
conditioning at the systems level, until recently little has been learned about
the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms. The success of systems-level
work aimed at defining the neuroanatomical pathways underlying fear conditioning,
combined with the knowledge accumulated by studies of long-term potentiation
(LTP), has recently given way to new insights into the cellular and molecular
mechanisms that underlie acquisition and consolidation of fear memories.
Collectively, these findings suggest that fear memory consolidation in the
amygdala shares essential biochemical features with LTP, and hold promise for
understanding the relationship between memory consolidation and synaptic
plasticity in the mammalian brain.


PMID: 11506888  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1442. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):533-40.

Recombinant proteins for neurodegenerative diseases: the delivery issue.

Aebischer P(1), Ridet J.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Therapy Center, Lausanne University Medical Hospital, CHUV, 1011
Lausanne, Switzerland. patrick.aebischer@epfl.ch

Tackling neurodegenerative diseases represents a formidable challenge for our
ageing society. Recently, major achievements have been made in understanding the 
molecular mechanisms responsible for such diseases, and, simultaneously, numerous
proteins such as neurotrophic factors, anti-apoptotic or anti-oxidant have been
identified as potential therapeutic agents. Although many neurotrophic factors
have been tested on individuals suffering from various neurodegenerative
disorders, to date none has shown efficacy. Inadequate protein delivery is
believed to be part of the problem. Recent improvements in pump technology, as
well as in cell and gene therapy, are providing innovative ways to allow
localized, regulatable delivery of proteins in brain parenchyma, opening new
avenues for clinical trials in the not so distant future.


PMID: 11506887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1443. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):527-33.

Genetic animal models: focus on schizophrenia.

Gainetdinov RR(1), Mohn AR, Caron MG.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute Laboratories, Dept. of Cell Biology, Duke
University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

The neurobiology of schizophrenia remains poorly understood. Symptoms of
schizophrenia are classically thought to be associated with an imbalance of the
dopaminergic system. However, the contribution of other neurotransmitters, in
particular glutamate, has been increasingly appreciated. The role of individual
components of neurotransmitter systems in aberrant behaviors can be
experimentally tested in transgenic animals. Dopamine transporter knockout mice
display persistently elevated dopaminergic tone and therefore might be
appropriate substrates to evaluate the dopamine hypothesis. Similarly, NMDA
receptor-deficient mice can be used to evaluate the glutamate hypothesis of
schizophrenia. In this review we discuss how such animal models might be relevant
for understanding the neurochemical underpinnings of certain manifestations of
schizophrenia.


PMID: 11506886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1444. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):517-26.

Kv3 channels: voltage-gated K+ channels designed for high-frequency repetitive
firing.

Rudy B(1), McBain CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Physiology and Neuroscience, New York University School of Medicine, 
550 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016, USA. rudyb01@med.nyu.edu

Analysis of the Kv3 subfamily of K(+) channel subunits has lead to the discovery 
of a new class of neuronal voltage-gated K(+) channels characterized by
positively shifted voltage dependencies and very fast deactivation rates. These
properties are adaptations that allow these channels to produce currents that can
specifically enable fast repolarization of action potentials without compromising
spike initiation or height. The short spike duration and the rapid deactivation
of the Kv3 currents after spike repolarization maximize the quick recovery of
resting conditions after an action potential. Several neurons in the mammalian
CNS have incorporated into their repertoire of voltage-dependent conductances a
relatively large number of Kv3 channels to enable repetitive firing at high
frequencies - an ability that crucially depends on the special properties of Kv3 
channels and their impact on excitability.


PMID: 11506885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1445. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):515-6.

Dyslexia, development and the cerebellum.

Nicolson R, Fawcett AJ, Dean P.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):513-5.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):512-3.


PMID: 11506884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1446. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):513-5.

A neural instantiation of the motor theory of speech perception.

Ivry RB(1), Justus TC.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Psychology, MC 1650, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720,
USA. ivry@socrates.berkeley.edu

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):515-6.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):508-11.


PMID: 11506883  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1447. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):512-3.

The cerebellum and dyslexia: perpetrator or innocent bystander?

Zeffiro T(1), Eden G.

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Study of Learning, Georgetown University School of Medicine,
Washington, DC 20007, USA. taz@georgetown.edu

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):515-6.


PMID: 11506882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1448. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):508-11.

Developmental dyslexia: the cerebellar deficit hypothesis.

Nicolson RI(1), Fawcett AJ, Dean P.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Psychology, University of Sheffield, S10 2TP, Sheffield, UK.
R.Nicolson@sheff.ac.uk

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):513-5.

Surprisingly, the problems faced by many dyslexic children are by no means
confined to reading and spelling. There appears to be a general impairment in the
ability to perform skills automatically, an ability thought to be dependent upon 
the cerebellum. Specific behavioural and neuroimaging tests reviewed here
indicate that dyslexia is indeed associated with cerebellar impairment in about
80% of cases. We propose that disorders of cerebellar development can in fact
cause the impairments in reading and writing characteristic of dyslexia, a view
consistent with the recently appreciated role of the cerebellum in
language-related skills. This proposal has implications for early remedial
treatment.


PMID: 11506881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1449. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):502.

Learning from flies.

Gerlai R.


PMID: 11506873  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1450. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):502-3.

Heterosynaptic strengthening of hippocampal LTP.

Nguyen PV(1).

Author information: 
(1)Peter.Nguyen@ualberta.ca


PMID: 11506872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1451. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):498-500.

To be or not to be: a question of B-Raf?

Kolch W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biomedical and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow,
UK. wkolch@beatson.gla.ac.uk

A recent study has identified the B-Raf gene as essential for the survival of
explanted sensory and motor neurons in culture in response to neurotrophic
factors. This finding sheds new light on the control of neuronal development and 
poses new questions with regard to Raf-isozyme-specific functions.


PMID: 11506871  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1452. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):497-8.

Viewing odors in the mushroom body of the fly.

Carlson JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, Yale University, New 
Haven, CT 06520-8103, USA. john.carlson@yale.edu

Central processing of olfactory information has been analyzed in the mushroom
body of Drosophila by Ca(2+) imaging, extending such analysis of odor coding to
the second relay of the olfactory system. Different odors, and different
concentrations of a particular odor, yield distinct spatial patterns of activity.
Mutations that affect odor receptors and odorant-binding proteins affect these
spatial patterns.


PMID: 11506870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1453. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):494-6; discussion 496.

Can galanin also be considered as growth-associated protein 3.2?

Zigmond RE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Neurosciences, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH
44106-4975, USA. rez@po.cwru.edu

A recent study has shown that mice containing a loss-of-function mutation in the 
gene encoding galanin exhibit decreased peripheral nerve regeneration after a
lesion. This major advance indicates, for the first time, that the large
increases in galanin expression that occur in axotomized peripheral neurons have 
functional consequences for regeneration. Hopefully, similar functional
consequences will soon be found for other peptides induced in these neurons after
axotomy, such as vasoactive intestinal peptide and pituitary adenylate
cyclase-activating peptide.


PMID: 11506868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1454. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):492-4.

Notch and the birth of glial cells.

Lundkvist J(1), Lendahl U.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Cell and Molecular Biology, Medical Nobel Institute, Karolinska
Institute, SE-171 77, Stockholm, Sweden.

Notch receptors play crucial roles in many cellular differentiation programs. In 
addition to a more classical role for Notch in keeping cells in an
undifferentiated state, a recent paper has provided clear evidence that Notch
signaling is a powerful means of turning adult CNS precursor cells into
astrocytes. This work, combined with other reports from the developing CNS,
retina and the PNS, demonstrates a role for Notch in gliogenesis. These findings 
can also be linked to novel insights into the function of proneural basic
helix-loop-helix proteins in astrocytic differentiation.


PMID: 11506867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1455. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):489-92.

LIS1: from cortical malformation to essential protein of cellular dynamics.

Leventer RJ(1), Cardoso C, Ledbetter DH, Dobyns WB.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA.

The LIS1 gene was cloned following the study of children with lissencephaly and
cytogenetic abnormalities involving chromosome 17p, however, the role of the LIS1
protein in normal cortical development is not precisely defined. LIS1 is a
component of evolutionarily conserved intracellular multiprotein complexes and
recent literature shows that these complexes are essential, not only for neuronal
migration, but they might also be fundamental components of the machinery for
cell proliferation and intracellular transport.


PMID: 11506866  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1456. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):434-5.

Keystone clocks.

Kyriacou CP(1), Hastings M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Genetics, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK LE1 7RH


PMID: 11530778  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1457. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):439-40.

SNAREdinburgh: the molecular mechanisms of exocytosis and endocytosis.

Cousin M(1), Apps D, Shipston M, Chow B.

Author information: 
(1)Membrane Biology Group, University of Edinburg, UK. m.cousin@ed.ac.uk


PMID: 11488297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1458. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):437-9.

Functional recovery after spinal cord injury: basic science meets clinic.

Schwab JM(1), Leppert CA, Kaps KH, Monnier PP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Brain Research, University of Tübingen, Medical School
Neuroimmunology, Germany. jmschwab@med.uni-tuebingen.de


PMID: 11488296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1459. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):435-7.

Multiple sclerosis: more than inflammation and demyelination.

Rieckmann P(1), Smith KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Julius-Maximilians University, Würzburg, Germany.


PMID: 11488295  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1460. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):479-86.

Analysis of complex brain disorders with gene expression microarrays:
schizophrenia as a disease of the synapse.

Mirnics K(1), Middleton FA, Lewis DA, Levitt P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine,
Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA.

The level of cellular and molecular complexity of the nervous system creates
unique problems for the neuroscientist in the design and implementation of
functional genomic studies. Microarray technologies can be powerful, with
limitations, when applied to the analysis of human brain disorders. Recently,
using cDNA microarrays, altered gene expression patterns between subjects with
schizophrenia and controls were shown. Functional data mining led to two novel
discoveries: a consistent decrease in the group of transcripts encoding proteins 
that regulate presynaptic function; and the most changed gene, which has never
been previously associated with schizophrenia, regulator of G-protein signaling
4. From these and other findings, a hypothesis has been formulated to suggest
that schizophrenia is a disease of the synapse. In the context of a
neurodevelopmental model, it is proposed that impaired mechanics of synaptic
transmission in specific neural circuits during childhood and adolescence
ultimately results in altered synapse formation or pruning, or both, which
manifest in the clinical onset of the disease.


PMID: 11476888  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1461. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):473-8.

Regulation of Na+ channel distribution in the nervous system.

Novakovic SD(1), Eglen RM, Hunter JC.

Author information: 
(1)Roche Bioscience, Palo Alto, CA 94304-1397, USA. sanja.novakovic@roche.com

An important aspect of Na+ channel regulation is their distribution on neuronal
membranes within the nervous system. The complexity of this process is brought by
the molecular diversity of Na+ channels and differential regulation of their
distribution. In addition, Na+ channel localization is a highly dynamic process
depending on the status of the cell in vitro, and (patho)physiological condition 
of the organism in vivo. Nonetheless, the pharmacological manipulation of Na+
channel distribution should be possible and will hopefully bring safer and
more-potent medicines in the future.


PMID: 11476887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1462. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):464-72.

Studying rhythmogenesis of breathing: comparison of in vivo and in vitro models.

Richter DW(1), Spyer KM.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology II, Georg August Universität Göttingen, 37073, Göttingen,
Germany. d.richter@gwdg.de

In all mammalian species, breathing is controlled by a neuronal network within
the lower brainstem. A component known as the ventral respiratory group produces 
rhythmic activity, which is transmitted to spinal motoneurons to produce a
periodic contraction of respiratory muscles. A dispute about the mechanisms of
'normal' respiratory rhythm generation arose from the differences between
experimental preparations that have been used to dissect the process. It is,
therefore, essential to compare the various experimental approaches and to
discuss the differences between experimental data. We conclude that the various
preparations all have great value, but that they define different operational
conditions of the network, including maturation of neurons and synaptic
processes. We have taken note of these in formulating a 'maturational
network-burster model' for rhythm generation that includes most features of the
existing models of respiratory rhythm generation.


PMID: 11476886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1463. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):455-63.

Synaptic reverberation underlying mnemonic persistent activity.

Wang XJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Volen Center for Complex Systems, Brandeis University, 415 South Street,
Waltham, MA 02254-9110, USA. xjwang@brandeis.edu

Stimulus-specific persistent neural activity is the neural process underlying
active (working) memory. Since its discovery 30 years ago, mnemonic activity has 
been hypothesized to be sustained by synaptic reverberation in a recurrent
circuit. Recently, experimental and modeling work has begun to test the
reverberation hypothesis at the cellular level. Moreover, theory has been
developed to describe memory storage of an analog stimulus (such as spatial
location or eye position), in terms of continuous 'bump attractors' and 'line
attractors'. This review summarizes new studies, and discusses insights and
predictions from biophysically based models. The stability of a working memory
network is recognized as a serious problem; stability can be achieved if
reverberation is largely mediated by NMDA receptors at recurrent synapses.


PMID: 11476885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1464. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):450-5.

Glial activation: a driving force for pathological pain.

Watkins LR(1), Milligan ED, Maier SF.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology & the Center for Neurosciences, University of Colorado at, 
Boulder, CO, USA. lwatkins@psych.colorado.edu

Pain is classically viewed as being mediated solely by neurons, as are other
sensory phenomena. The discovery that spinal cord glia (microglia and astrocytes)
amplify pain requires a change in this view. These glia express characteristics
in common with immune cells in that they respond to viruses and bacteria,
releasing proinflammatory cytokines, which create pathological pain. These spinal
cord glia also become activated by certain sensory signals arriving from the
periphery. Similar to spinal infection, these signals cause release of
proinflammatory cytokines, thus creating pathological pain. Taken together, these
findings suggest a new, dramatically different approach to pain control, as all
clinical therapies are focused exclusively on altering neuronal, rather than
glial, function.


PMID: 11476884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1465. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):445-9.

Rocking and rolling with Ca2+ channels.

Miller RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Molecular Pharmacology, Northwestern University, 303 E. Chicago
Avenue, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. r-miller10@northwestern.edu

Voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels are a large family of related heterooligomers
that couple cell excitability to intracellular signalling. Recent studies on mice
carrying Ca2+ channel mutations, or in which Ca2+ channel subunits have been
deleted, have provided important information about the roles carried out by these
molecules in cardiovascular function, pain, epilepsy, migraine and deafness, in
addition to further defining how Ca2+ channels regulate the physiology of
excitable cells.


PMID: 11476883  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1466. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):441.

Engineering a sensory circuit in the brain: multiple roles for a single gene.

Fekete DM.


PMID: 11476872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1467. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):441-2.

A multi-talented secreted protein.

Mattson MP.


PMID: 11476871  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1468. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):432-3.

Glial cells aid axonal target selection.

Pielage J(1), Klämbt C.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Neurobiologie, Universität Münster, Badestr. 9, 48149, Münster,
Germany.

A key problem in developmental neurobiology is how axons home in on their correct
target tissue and establish the correct synaptic contacts. Recent work shows that
in the developing Drosophila visual system a population of distinct lamina glial 
cells ensures correct target layer selection of retinal axons. In the absence of 
lamina neurons, photoreceptor axons terminate their growth in the correct zone,
but when glial cell migration into the lamina is disrupted, as in nonstop
mutants, growth cones advance into deeper layers of the brain.


PMID: 11476870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1469. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):429-31.

Neurosteroids and brain sexual differentiation.

Schlinger BA(1), Soma KK, London SE.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiological Science and Laboratory of Neuroendocrinology, Brain
Research Institute, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1527, USA.
schlinge@lifesci.ucla.edu

There is new evidence that the brain of developing songbirds can synthesize
estradiol de novo. In males, this neurally derived estrogen might masculinize a
connection within the neural song system. These results challenge traditional
concepts about mechanisms of brain sexual differentiation and reveal a
significant function for neurosteroids.


PMID: 11476868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1470. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Aug;24(8):427-9.

GDNF recruits the signaling crew into lipid rafts.

Saarma M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, University of Helsinki, PO Box 56, Viikinkaari 9, 
FIN-00014, Helsinki, Finland. Mart.Saarma@helsinki.fi

Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family ligands (GFL) are
potent survival factors and regulators for central and peripheral neurons. GFLs
bind to specific glycosyl phosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored co-receptors
(GFRalpha1-alpha4), but signal through a common c-Ret receptor. Both GPI-anchored
and soluble GFRalpha1 recruit c-Ret to lipid rafts following GDNF stimulation,
where c-Ret interacts with different proteins than outside the rafts. Soluble
GFRalpha1 mobilizes c-Ret to rafts by a different mechanism compared with
GPI-anchored GFRalpha1.


PMID: 11476867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1471. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):377-80.

Advanced use of 3-D methods for counting neurons.

Schmitz C, Korr H, Perl DP, Hof PR.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):504-6.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):51-61.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):11-7.


PMID: 11467289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1472. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):376-7; author reply 378-80.

Commentary of the paper by Benes and Lange.

Coggeshall RE.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):504-6.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):51-61.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):11-7.


PMID: 11467288  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1473. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):375-6; author reply 378-80.

Is stereology 'unbiased'?

Baddeley A.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):504-6.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):11-7.


PMID: 11467287  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1474. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):374; author reply 378-80.

2-D versus 3-D cell counting--a debate. What is an optical disector?

West MJ, Slomanka L.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):504-6.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):51-61.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):11-7.


PMID: 11467286  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1475. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):374-5; author reply 378-80.

Cost-effectiveness of 3-D cell counting.

Geuna S.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):504-6.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):11-7.


PMID: 11467285  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1476. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):369-70.

Neuronal Ca(2+) signalling: pathways and targets.

Parekh A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, University of Oxford, UK. anant.parekh@physiol.ox.ac.uk


PMID: 11467284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1477. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):367-9.

Current advances in Parkinson's disease.

Ball J(1).

Author information: 
(1)jody.ball@cwcom.net


PMID: 11467283  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1478. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):417-23.

Intrinsic and extrinsic factors that shape neocortical specification.

Pallas SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, and the Center for Neural Communication and
Computation, Georgia State University, 30303, Atlanta, GA, USA. spallas@gsu.edu

Increasing evidence points to the importance of intrinsic molecular cues in
specifying the regional identity of mammalian neocortex. Few such cues, however, 
have been found to be restricted to individual functionally defined cortical
areas before the arrival of afferent information. In contrast, thalamocortical
axons are specifically targeted to individual cortical areas, raising the
possibility that they can instruct some aspects of cortical areal identity.
Cortical structure and function can be altered by modifying the source or pattern
of activity in thalamocortical afferents. In particular, studies of cross-modal
plasticity have shown that in many respects, one sensory cortical area can
substitute for another after a switch of input modality during development.
Afferent inputs might therefore direct the formation of their own processing
circuitry, a possibility that has important implications for brain development,
plasticity and evolution.


PMID: 11410273  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1479. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):411-6.

Oxidative stress and neuroAIDS: triggers, modulators and novel antioxidants.

Mollace V(1), Nottet HS, Clayette P, Turco MC, Muscoli C, Salvemini D, Perno CF.

Author information: 
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Catanzaro 'Magna Graecia', Roccelletta di
Borgia, Catanzaro, Italy. mollace@libero.it

Neurological disorders represent one of the most common disturbances accompanying
HIV infection. In the past few years, highly antiretroviral active therapy has
significantly reduced the incidence of HIV-related diseases. However,
neurological dysfunction in AIDS patients still remains an unresolved problem.
Oxidative stress, which occurs in brain tissues of patients undergoing HIV
infection and is implicated in cell death of both astroglia and neurones, has
recently been suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis of neuroAIDS. Thus, a 
better understanding of the processes that trigger and modulate free radical
formation in brain tissues of AIDS patients might help in a successful
therapeutic approach to the neuropathogenesis of HIV infection.


PMID: 11410272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1480. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):401-10.

The larval ascidian nervous system: the chordate brain from its small beginnings.

Meinertzhagen IA(1), Okamura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Institute, Life Sciences Centre, Dalhousie University, Halifax,
NS, B3H 4J1, Canada.

The body plan of the tadpole larva of ascidians, or sea-squirts, is widely
presumed to be close to that of the hypothetical ancestor of all chordate animal 
groups, including vertebrates. This is nowhere more obvious than in the
organization and development of the dorsal tubular nervous system. Several recent
developments advocate this model neural system for studies on neurobiology and
neurogenesis. These include advances in our understanding of development in
ascidian embryos and of differentiation among the cellular progeny of its neural 
plate; the application of transgenic and mutant approaches to studies on ascidian
larval neurones; and the prospect of advances in genomic analyses. In addition to
providing ways to study a working chordate brain in miniature, all these offer
insights into the ancestral condition of the developing vertebrate brain.


PMID: 11410271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1481. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):392-400.

Advances in molecular genetics and pathology of cerebrovascular disorders.

Kalaria RN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wolfson Research Centre, Institute for Health of the Elderly, Newcastle
General Hospital, Westgate Road, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Progress in molecular genetics has enabled the dissection of several autosomal
dominantly inherited forms of cerebrovascular disorders. Mutations in diverse
genes might induce pathological changes in intracranial vessels, resulting in
cerebral haemorrhages and ischaemic strokes. Such pathologies, however, might
also result from systemic vascular disease caused by mutations or polymorphisms
in genes that regulate cardiovascular physiology, blood coagulation, lipid
metabolism and metabolic functions. Interestingly, several mutations that
directly affect CNS vasculature involve genes that control inter- or
intracellular signalling functions. Although highly variable phenotypes make it
difficult to pinpoint the genotypes, genetic characterization of cerebrovascular 
disorders is valuable for understanding the pathogenesis and management of
sporadic disease.


PMID: 11410270  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1482. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):386-91.

Brain damage, sex hormones and recovery: a new role for progesterone and
estrogen?

Stein DG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Emory University, Depts of Psychology, Emergency Medicine and Neurology,
30322, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Estrogen and progesterone, long considered for their roles as primary hormones in
reproductive and maternal behavior, are now being studied as neuroprotective and 
neuroregenerative agents in stroke and traumatic brain injuries. Collectively,
the hormones reduce the consequences of the injury cascade by enhancing
anti-oxidant mechanisms, reducing excitotoxicity (altering glutamate receptor
activity, reducing immune inflammation, providing neurotrophic support,
stimulating axonal remyelinization), and enhancing synaptogenesis and dendritic
arborization. Estrogen seems more effective as a prophylactic treatment in
females at risk for cardiac and ischemic brain injury, whereas progesterone
appears to be more helpful in the post-injury treatment of both male and female
subjects with acute traumatic brain damage. However, a recent clinical trial with
estradiol replacement therapy in elderly women that have a history of
cerebrovascular disease, showed that this hormone was unable to protect against
reoccurrence of ischemia or to reduce the incidence of mortality compared to a
placebo.


PMID: 11410269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1483. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):381-5.

Short-term synaptic plasticity as a temporal filter.

Fortune ES(1), Rose GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology, University of Utah, 257 South 1400 East, 84112, Salt Lake
City, UT, USA. fortune@www.psy.jhu.edu

Synaptic efficacy can increase (synaptic facilitation) or decrease (synaptic
depression) markedly within milliseconds after the onset of specific temporal
patterns of activity. Recent evidence suggests that short-term synaptic
depression contributes to low-pass temporal filtering, and can account for a
well-known paradox - many low-pass neurons respond vigorously to transients and
the onsets of high temporal-frequency stimuli. The use of depression for low-pass
filtering, however, is itself a paradox; depression induced by ongoing
high-temporal frequency stimuli could preclude desired responses to low-temporal 
frequency information. This problem can be circumvented, however, by activation
of short-term synaptic facilitation that maintains responses to low-temporal
frequency information. Such short-term plasticity might also contribute to
spatio-temporal processing.


PMID: 11410267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1484. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):365-6.

Kainate receptors: knocking out plasticity.

Huettner JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology and Physiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St
Louis, MO 63110, USA. huettner@cellbio.wustl.edu [corrected]

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2001 Aug;24(8):488.

There is increasing evidence that kainate receptors contribute to both
postsynaptic and presynaptic signaling. Studies of knockout mice have played a
pivotal role in defining the functions of kainate receptors, including a recent
study that implicates kainate receptors in frequency-dependent facilitation and
long-term potentiation of hippocampal mossy fiber synapses.


PMID: 11410255  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1485. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):363-4.

Neuroscience in the post-genome era: an overview.

Walsh CA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical
Center, Boston, MA 02115, USA. cwalsh@caregroup.harvard.edu

Although sequencing of the human genome has been taking place in rapidly
accelerating fashion for years, the presentation of the entire sequence (to a
first approximation, anyway) has now permitted a global view of its structure.
The completion of the sequence has therefore invited all manner of aesthetic,
philosophical, societal - as well as biological - discussions of its
implications. This global view of the genome will undoubtedly forever change the 
face of biology. But how? Here are a few perspectives from the point of view of
neuroscience.


PMID: 11410254  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1486. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):318-9.

BDNF and epilepsy--the bad could turn out to be good.

Reibel S, Depaulis A, Larmet Y.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):47-53.


PMID: 11421232  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1487. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):316-8.

'Saccadic suppression'- no need for an active extra-retinal mechanism.

Castet E, Jeanjean S, Masson GS.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):113-21.


PMID: 11421231  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1488. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):311-2.

Steroids in the nervous system: a Pandora's box?

Melcangi RC(1), Panzica G.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Endocrinology, University of Milan, Milano, Italy.
melcangi@mailserver.unimi.it

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):570-2.


PMID: 11421230  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1489. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):353-60.

Developing networks play a similar melody.

Ben-Ari Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)INMED, INSERM U29, Avenue de Luminy, B.P. 13, 13273 Cedex 09, Marseille,
France. ben-ari@inmed.univ-mrs.fr

During development, when synapses start to be established, a primitive form of
network-driven activity provides most of the synaptic activity. This pattern
enables a high degree of synchrony in immature neurons in spite of the small
number of functional synapses and could participate in activity-dependent growth 
and synapse formation. Relying on the giant depolarizing potentials that provide 
most of the synaptic activity in the developing hippocampus, this article reviews
the common properties and generating mechanisms of these patterns, and
particularly the role of the early depolarizing action of GABA(A) and glycine
receptors and the sequential expression of GABA and glutamate synapses. Patterns 
similar to giant depolarizing potentials have been observed in a wide range of
structures and species suggesting that there is a temporal template throughout
evolution that constitutes an essential step in the formation of functional
networks.


PMID: 11356508  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1490. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):347-53.

New insights into progressive supranuclear palsy.

Albers DS(1), Augood SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology and Neuroscience, Weill Medical College of Cornell
University, New York, NY, USA. daa2010@mail.med.cornell.edu

Increased oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction have been suggested to
play crucial roles in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases,
including Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. In this review, we will
focus on progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), a rare parkinsonian disorder with 
tau pathology. Particular emphasis is placed on the genetic and biochemical data 
that has emerged, offering new perspectives into the pathogenesis of this
devastating disease, especially the contributory roles of oxidative damage and
mitochondrial dysfunction.


PMID: 11356507  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1491. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):339-46.

Properties and modulation of mammalian 2P domain K+ channels.

Patel AJ(1), Honoré E.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Pharmacologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, CNRS-UMR6097, 660 route
des Lucioles, Sophia Antipolis, 06560, Valbonne, France.

Mammalian 2P domain K(+) channels are responsible for background or 'leak' K(+)
currents. These channels are regulated by various physical and chemical stimuli, 
including membrane stretch, temperature, acidosis, lipids and inhalational
anaesthetics. Furthermore, channel activity is tightly controlled by membrane
receptor stimulation and second messenger phosphorylation pathways. Several
members of this novel family of K(+) channels are highly expressed in the central
and peripheral nervous systems in which they are proposed to play an important
physiological role. The pharmacological modulation of this novel class of ion
channels could be of interest for both general anaesthesia and ischaemic
neuroprotection.


PMID: 11356506  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1492. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):335-9.

Neuronal latencies and the position of moving objects.

Krekelberg B(1), Lappe M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Zoology and Neurobiology, Ruhr-University Bochum, 44780, Bochum,
Germany. bart@neurobiologie.ruhr-uni-bochum.de

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jun;25(6):293; author reply 294.

Neuronal latencies delay the registration of the visual signal from a moving
object. By the time the visual input reaches brain structures that encode its
position, the object has already moved on. Do we perceive the position of a
moving object with a delay because of neuronal latencies? Or is there a brain
mechanism that compensates for latencies such that we perceive the true position 
of a moving object in real time? This question has been intensely debated in the 
context of the flash-lag illusion: a moving object and an object flashed in
alignment with it appear to occupy different positions. The moving object is seen
ahead of the flash. Does this show that the visual system extrapolates the
position of moving objects into the future to compensate for neuronal latencies? 
Alternative accounts propose that it simply shows that moving and flashed objects
are processed with different delays, or that it reflects temporal integration in 
brain areas that encode position and motion. The flash-lag illusion and the
hypotheses put forward to explain it lead to interesting questions about the
encoding of position in the brain. Where is the 'where' pathway and how does it
work?


PMID: 11356505  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1493. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):330-4.

Psychosis: pathological activation of limbic thalamocortical circuits by
psychomimetics and schizophrenia?

Sharp FR(1), Tomitaka M, Bernaudin M, Tomitaka S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurosciences Program, University of Cincinnati
Vontz Center, 3125 Eden Avenue Rm 2327, Cincinnati, OH 45267-0536, USA.
frank.sharp@uc.edu

Non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists, such as phencyclidine, ketamine and
MK801, produce psychosis in humans. These drugs also produce injury to
cingulate-retrosplenial cortex in adult rodents that can be prevented by
GABA-receptor agonists and antipsychotics such as haloperidol and clozapine.
MK801 injections into anterior thalamus reproduce limbic cortex injury, and
GABA-receptor agonist injections into anterior thalamus prevent injury produced
by systemic MK801. Inhibition of NMDA receptors on GABAergic thalamic reticular
nucleus neurons might activate thalamocortical 'injury' circuits in animals.
Pathological activation of thalamocortical circuits might also mediate the
psychosis produced by NMDA-receptor antagonists in humans, and might contribute
to psychosis in schizophrenia.


PMID: 11356504  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1494. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):324-30.

Multiple brain-memory systems: the whole does not equal the sum of its parts.

Kim JJ(1), Baxter MG.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology and Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program, Yale
University, New Haven, CT 06520-8205, USA.

Most contemporary theories of memory are based on the assumption that memory can 
be divided into multiple psychological systems that are subserved by different
neural substrates and that contribute to performance in a relatively independent 
manner. Although the study of individual memory systems has proved to be
enormously useful, recent data increasingly point towards complex interactions
between memory systems during performance of any given memory task. Three basic
classes of interactions between different memory systems (competition, synergism 
and independence) are presented that appear to be congruent with the findings of 
many behavioral studies. Consideration of interactions among multiple memory
systems will enhance our current understanding of memory by encouraging the view 
that memory systems are dynamic interactive units, rather than independent
modules that act in isolation.


PMID: 11356503  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1495. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):320-4.

Do white cells matter in white matter damage?

Dammann O(1), Durum S, Leviton A.

Author information: 
(1)Children's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2002 Jan;25(1):20-1.

Support is provided for the hypothesis that activated leukocytes, especially
monocytes/macrophages, contribute to cerebral white matter damage in extremely
low gestational age newborns. Much of the evidence is indirect and comes from
analogies to brain diseases in adults, and from models of brain damage in adult
and newborn animals. If the recruitment of circulating cells to the brain
contributes to white matter damage in extremely low gestational age newborns,
then minimizing the transendothelial migration of circulating cells by
pharmacological manipulation might prevent or reduce the occurrence of neonatal
white matter damage and the disabilities that follow.


PMID: 11356502  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1496. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):314.

CREB and the enhancement of long-term memory.

Nguyen PV.


PMID: 11356494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1497. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):313.

Glial cells: the neighbors you might want to keep.

Bak M.


PMID: 11356493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1498. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):313-4.

Lose weight STAT: CNTF tops leptin.

Mattson MP.


PMID: 11356492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1499. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):309-11.

Why didn't the glia cross the road?

Auld VJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cell Biology Group, University of British Columbia, BC, V6T 1Z4, Vancouver,
Canada. auld@zoology.ubc.ca

To cross or not to cross the midline? This is the question that pathfinding axons
in the developing CNS must answer. In the past few years the molecular mechanisms
involved in this decision process have been determined for neurones. A recent
paper now shows that glia are also affected by these same mechanisms and that the
presence of glia can tip the balance in favour of repulsion or attraction of
neurones to the midline.


PMID: 11356491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1500. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):307-9.

Watching the sleeping brain watch us - sensory processing during sleep.

Stickgold R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Laboratory of Neurophysiology, Massachusetts
Mental Health Center, Harvard Medical School, 74 Fenwood Rd., Boston MA 02115,
USA. rstickgold@hms.harvard.edu

Presentation of auditory stimuli to sleeping subjects produced distinct fMRI
activation patterns. Whereas pure tones activated auditory processing regions,
subjects' names additionally activated language centers as well as the left
amygdala and prefrontal cortex. These studies open the way for crucial studies of
sleep-dependent cognitive processing.


PMID: 11356489  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1501. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):305-7.

Vaccine development for Alzheimer's disease: a shot of good news.

Ingram DK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Behavioral Neuroscience Section, Laboratory of Neuroscience, Gerontology
Research Center, National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, 5600
Nathan Shock Lane Drive, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. doni@vax.grc.nia.nih.gov

Studies in transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease suggest the potential
for vaccine development for this disease. Specifically, inoculation with Abeta
peptide reduces Abeta plaque formation. However, this vaccination strategy has
raised safety concerns. Recent studies have reduced these concerns by
demonstrating that long-term Abeta vaccination in transgenic mice does not
produce detrimental behavioral effects and in fact appears to protect against
age-related functional decline in spatial memory tasks.


PMID: 11356488  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1502. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):295-300.

Neural correlates of attention in primate visual cortex.

Treue S(1).

Author information: 
(1)University of Tübingen, Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory, Dept of Neurology, 
Auf der Morgenstelle 15, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. treue@uni-tuebingen.de

The processing of visual information combines bottom-up sensory aspects with
top-down influences, most notably attentional processes. Attentional influences
have now been demonstrated throughout visual cortex, and their influence on the
processing of visual information is profound. Neuronal responses to attended
locations or stimulus features are enhanced, whereas those from unattended
locations or features are suppressed. This influence of attention increases as
one ascends the hierarchy of visual areas in primate cortex, ultimately resulting
in a neural representation of the visual world that is dominated by the
behavioral relevance of the information, rather than designed to provide an
accurate and complete description of it. This realization has led to a rethinking
of the role of areas that have previously been considered to be "purely sensory".


PMID: 11311383  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1503. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):289-94.

The anatomical and computational basis of the rat head-direction cell signal.

Sharp PE(1), Blair HT, Cho J.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biomedical Sciences, University of Illinois, College of Medicine at
Rockford, 1601 Parkview Avenue, Rockford, IL 61107, USA. psharp@uic.edu

As a rat navigates through space, neurons called head-direction (HD) cells
provide a signal of the rat's momentary directional heading. Although partly
guided by landmarks, the cells also show a remarkable ability to track
directional heading based on angular head movement. Theoretical models suggest
that the HD cells are linked together to form an attractor network, and that
cells which signal angular velocity update the directional setting of the
attractor. Recently, cell types similar to those required theoretically have been
discovered in the lateral mammillary and dorsal tegmental nuclei. Lesion and
anatomical data suggest these nuclei might constitute the postulated
attractor-path integration mechanism, and that they provide the HD cell signal to
cortical areas where it has been observed.


PMID: 11311382  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1504. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):283-8.

"Primitive intelligence" in the auditory cortex.

Näätänen R(1), Tervaniemi M, Sussman E, Paavilainen P, Winkler I.

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Brain Research Unit, Dept of Psychology, University of Helsinki,
Helsinki, Finland. rnaatanen@cchelsinki.fi

The everyday auditory environment consists of multiple simultaneously active
sources with overlapping temporal and spectral acoustic properties. Despite the
seemingly chaotic composite signal impinging on our ears, the resulting
perception is of an orderly "auditory scene" that is organized according to
sources and auditory events, allowing us to select messages easily, recognize
familiar sound patterns, and distinguish deviant or novel ones. Recent data
suggest that these perceptual achievements are mainly based on processes of a
cognitive nature ("sensory intelligence") in the auditory cortex. Even higher
cognitive processes than previously thought, such as those that organize the
auditory input, extract the common invariant patterns shared by a number of
acoustically varying sounds, or anticipate the auditory events of the immediate
future, occur at the level of sensory cortex (even when attention is not directed
towards the sensory input).


PMID: 11311381  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1505. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):277-82.

Advances in the molecular understanding of GABA(B) receptors.

Billinton A(1), Ige AO, Bolam JP, White JH, Marshall FH, Emson PC.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, Babraham Institute, Babraham, Cambridge, UK, CB2 4AT.

The molecular nature of the metabotropic GABA(B) receptor was for some time a
mystery, however it was recently discovered that two related G-protein-coupled
receptors have to heterodimerize to form the functional GABA(B) receptor at the
cell surface. This review discusses the most recent findings in the rapidly
expanding field of GABA(B) receptor research, and includes a summary of all
splice variants of both receptor subunits identified to date. It also evaluates
emerging evidence that certain splice variants might play a role in determining
pharmacologically distinguishable receptors, and reviews receptor localization at
the sub-cellular level and involvement in neuronal development.


PMID: 11311380  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1506. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):271-6.

The endoplasmic reticulum: one continuous or several separate Ca(2+) stores?

Petersen OH(1), Tepikin A, Park MK.

Author information: 
(1)The MRC Secretory Control Research Group, The Physiological Laboratory,
University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK, L69 3BX. o.h.petersen@liv.ac.uk

The Ca2+ store and sink in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is important for Ca2+
signal integration and for conveyance of information in spatial and temporal
domains. Textbooks regard the ER as one continuous network, but biochemical and
biophysical studies revealed apparently discrete ER Ca2+ stores. Recent direct
studies of ER lumenal Ca2+ movements show that this organelle system is one
continuous Ca2+ store, which can function as a Ca2+ tunnel. The concept of a
fully connected ER network is entirely compatible with evidence indicating that
the distribution of Ca2+ -release channels in the ER membrane is discontinuous
with clustering in certain localities.


PMID: 11311379  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1507. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):266-71.

Cortical spreading depression and migraine: new insights from imaging?

James MF(1), Smith JM, Boniface SJ, Huang CL, Leslie RA.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research, GlaxoSmithKline, New Frontiers Science Park (North),
Third Avenue, Harlow, Essex, UK, CM19 5AW.

The possibility that spreading depression (SD) of cortical activity, a phenomenon
observed in all vertebrates, causes the aura of migraine remains an open question
in spite of nearly half a century of investigation. SD is also thought to be
associated with the progressive neuronal injury observed during cerebral
ischaemia. Thus, the ability to detect and investigate SD in humans might prove
clinically significant. Animal studies of cortical spreading depression (CSD)
have benefited greatly from the advent of relatively non-invasive imaging
techniques. The use of these new imaging techniques for clinical studies will
accelerate progress in this area of neurobiology.


PMID: 11311378  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1508. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):259-66.

Proteomics of the nervous system.

Husi H(1), Grant SG.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, University of Edinburgh, 1 George Square, Edinburgh, UK,
EH9 9JZ.

The recent success of large-scale industrialized genomic sequencing opens new
doors in studies of biological systems. In the current post-genomic era we must
ask how to translate this DNA sequence information into an understanding of
living cells, tissues and organisms. One of the major goals is to characterize
protein function, biochemical pathways and networks. Achieving this aim is
greatly advanced by application of new proteomic tools combined with database
mining. Neuroscience in particular is poised to benefit from these approaches in 
light of its high complexity and cross-talk between different neurotransmitter
receptors within the same synapse or across the synaptic cleft. Little is known
about the global in vivo protein interactions within synapses, and the knowledge 
of all proteins present in such structures will help in determining sub-complexes
and the modular arrangement of proteins within them. This article reviews the
impact of and outlines the application of proteomic analysis in the field of
neuroscience, illustrating this with the example of NMDA receptor complexes.


PMID: 11311377  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1509. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):258.

Attention mediated by synchrony of neurons.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11311376  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1510. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):258.

US budget proposal favors biomedical over basic sciences.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11311375  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1511. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):258.

European research funding advances.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11311374  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1512. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):258.

New tools to look at NO.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11311373  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1513. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):258.

The amused brain.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11311372  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1514. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):257-8.

Odor detection in zebrafish.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11311371  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1515. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):257.

Proteome efforts to follow Genome reports.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11311370  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1516. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):257.

New LTP molecule.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11311369  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1517. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):257.

AD gene accelerates MS.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11311368  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1518. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):257.

Scientific expertise in law.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11311367  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1519. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):256-7.

MAPing the path from neuronal activity to spine motility.

Haas K.


PMID: 11311366  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1520. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):255-6.

Neuronal death and GSK-3beta: a tau fetish?

Mattson MP.


PMID: 11311365  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1521. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):255.

Fighting Bax: towards a Parkinson's disease therapy.

Ploix C, Spier AD.


PMID: 11311364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1522. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):251-4.

Mosaic analysis with a repressible cell marker (MARCM) for Drosophila neural
development.

Lee T(1), Luo L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Structural Biology, University of Illinois,
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2001 Jul;24(7):385.

We have modified an FLP/FRT-based genetic mosaic system to label either neurons
derived from a common progenitor or isolated single neurons, in the Drosophila
CNS. These uniquely labeled neurons can also be made homozygous for a mutation of
interest within an otherwise phenotypically wild-type brain. Using this new
mosaic system, not only can normal brain development be described with
unprecedented single cell resolution, but also the underlying molecular
mechanisms can be investigated by identifying genes that are required for these
developmental processes.


PMID: 11311363  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1523. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):248-50.

The uncommon retina of the common house mouse.

Neitz M(1), Neitz J.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Ophthalmology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI 53226-4812,
USA. mneitz@mcw.edu

Unlike most mammals, most cones in house mouse retina express two opsins, one
sensitive to UV-light, and another sensitive to middle-wavelengths. Is the mouse 
unique, having a single cone type that normally expresses two opsins? Or is the
mouse a typical mammal having two cone types, but a species wide mutation results
in co-expression of two opsins?


PMID: 11311361  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1524. Trends Neurosci. 2001 May;24(5):245-7.

Parkinson's disease, pesticides and mitochondrial dysfunction.

Jenner P(1).

Author information: 
(1)King's College London, Manresa Road, London, UK SW3 6LX.
peter.jenner@kcl.ac.uk

Selective nigral degeneration with inclusion formation provoked by systemic
administration of the herbicide rotenone, through inhibition of complex I, raises
the question of pesticide exposure and environmental factors in general, as a
cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). Toxin-induced complex I inhibition probably
represents one of many potential causes of PD, but it alerts us to the dangers of
such substances in the environment and the need to identify genetically
susceptible populations. When vulnerable individuals become known, perhaps they
should stay out of the garden.


PMID: 11311359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1525. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):205-6.

Glia-neuronal culture models--do we need to change the paradigms?

Kimelberg HK.


PMID: 11334019  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1526. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):203-5.

Time-variant processing in V1: from microscopic (single cell) to mesoscopic
(population) levels.

Dinse HR, Jancke D.


PMID: 11334018  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1527. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):202-3.

The origin of isocortical development.

Aboitiz F.


PMID: 11334017  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1528. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):237-43.

Sleep and memory: a molecular perspective.

Graves L(1), Pack A, Abel T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Neuroscience Graduate Group, University of
Pennsylvania, 38th and Hamilton Walk, 319 Leidy Labs, Philadelphia, PA 19104,
USA.

This review synthesizes data from behavioral studies examining the role of sleep 
in memory storage with what is known about the molecular mechanisms of memory
consolidation. There are striking similarities in the effects on memory storage
of post-training pharmacological manipulations and post-training manipulations of
sleep. For example, inhibition of protein synthesis is most effective if it
occurs at a time post-training when rapid eye movement (REM) sleep is required
for memory consolidation. The neurochemical changes that occur across sleep/wake 
states, especially the cholinergic changes that occur in the hippocampus during
REM sleep, might provide a mechanism by which sleep modulates specific cellular
signaling pathways involved in hippocampus-dependent memory storage.


PMID: 11250009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1529. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):230-7.

Novel neurotransmitters as natural ligands of orphan G-protein-coupled receptors.

Civelli O(1), Nothacker HP, Saito Y, Wang Z, Lin SH, Reinscheid RK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, University of California-Irvine, 369 MedSurge II, 
Irvine, CA 92612, USA. ocivelli@uci.edu

The "orphan" G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are cloned GPCRs that bind
unknown ligands. Since 1995, nineteen orphan GPCRs have been used as targets to
identify and isolate their natural ligands via the application of the "orphan
receptor strategy". These ligands are peptides, lipids or biogenic amines, and
act as transmitter molecules. One nucleotide-sugar derivative and six peptides or
peptide families identified through this strategy are novel and have already
enriched our understanding of various brain functions.


PMID: 11250008  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1530. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):224-30.

The link between excitotoxic oligodendroglial death and demyelinating diseases.

Matute C(1), Alberdi E, Domercq M, Pérez-Cerdá F, Pérez-Samartín A, Sánchez-Gómez
MV.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Neurociencias, Universidad del País Vasco, 48940 Leioa, Spain.
onpmaalc@lg.ehu.es

Oligodendrocytes, the myelinating cells of CNS axons, are highly vulnerable to
excitotoxic signals mediated by glutamate receptors of the AMPA and kainate
classes. Receptors in these cells are commonly activated by glutamate that is
released from axons and glial cells. In addition, oligodendrocytes contribute to 
the control of extracellular glutamate levels by means of their own transporters.
However, acute and chronic alterations in glutamate homeostasis can result in
overactivation of AMPA and kainate receptors and subsequent excitotoxic
oligodendroglial death. Furthermore, demyelinating lesions caused by excitotoxins
can be similar to those observed in multiple sclerosis. This, together with the
effect of AMPA and kainate receptor antagonists in ameliorating the neurological 
score of animals with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (an animal model 
of multiple sclerosis), indicates that oligodendrocyte excitotoxicity could be
involved in the pathogenesis of demyelinating disorders.


PMID: 11250007  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1531. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):219-24.

Targeting small Abeta oligomers: the solution to an Alzheimer's disease
conundrum?

Klein WL(1), Krafft GA, Finch CE.

Author information: 
(1)Northwestern University Institute for Neuroscience and Dept of Neurobiology
and Physiology, Northwestern University, 2153 N Campus Drive, Evanston, IL 60208,
USA. wklein@northwestern.edu

Amyloid beta (Abeta) is a small self-aggregating peptide produced at low levels
by normal brain metabolism. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), self-aggregation of
Abeta becomes rampant, manifested most strikingly as the amyloid fibrils of
senile plaques. Because fibrils can kill neurons in culture, it has been argued
that fibrils initiate the neurodegenerative cascades of AD. An emerging and
different view, however, is that fibrils are not the only toxic form of Abeta,
and perhaps not the neurotoxin that is most relevant to AD: small oligomers and
protofibrils also have potent neurological activity. Immuno-neutralization of
soluble Abeta-derived toxins might be the key to optimizing AD vaccines that are 
now on the horizon.


PMID: 11250006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1532. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):216-8.

RNAi and brain function: was McConnell on the right track?

Smalheiser NR(1), Manev H, Costa E.

Author information: 
(1)UIC Psychiatric Institute, University of Illinois at Chicago MC912, 1601 W.
Taylor Street, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. smalheiser@psych.uic.edu

RNA interference (RNAi), one of the hottest topics of molecular biology research 
today, has unique features that are eerily reminiscent of the phenomenon of
"RNA-mediated memory transfer," a controversial line of work that was
investigated with great enthusiasm in the 1960s. If not a coincidence, then this 
suggests taking a new look at RNA-mediated modulation of neural function and
raises the possibility that RNAi might be one of the physiologic mechanisms that 
regulate long-term gene expression in the brain.


PMID: 11250005  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1533. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):211-5.

Nitric oxide: a novel link between synaptic and nonsynaptic transmission.

Kiss JP(1), Vizi ES.

Author information: 
(1)Department Pharmacology, Institute of Experimental Medicine, Hungarian Academy
of Sciences, H-1450, PO Box 67, Budapest, Hungary.

Accumulating evidence indicates that nitric oxide (NO) inhibits the function of
monoamine transporters. Because the production of NO by neuronal NO synthase
(nNOS) is closely related to the activation of NMDA receptors, the level of NO
around nNOS-containing synapses reflects the activity of glutamate-mediated
neurotransmission. Glutamate participates mainly in synaptic interactions, but
with the help of NO, the strength of excitatory input might be nonsynaptically
signaled to the surrounding monoaminergic neurons, which can adapt to the changes
without receiving glutamatergic input and without synthesizing glutamate
receptors. Thus, the effect of NO on transporters represents a new form of
interneuronal communication, a nonsynaptic interaction without receptors.


PMID: 11250004  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1534. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):207-11.

Ideal homes? Housing effects on rodent brain and behaviour.

Würbel H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Animal Sciences, Physiology and Animal Husbandry, ETH Standort
Schwerzenbach, Schorenstrasse 16, CH-8603, Schwerzenbach, Switzerland.
hanno.wuerbel@inw.agri.ethz.ch

Rodents used in biomedical research are typically reared in small cages that lack
key features of their natural habitats. These conditions impose constraints on
behaviour and brain development, resulting in altered brain functions. In this
article, evidence for three different ways in which barren housing conditions
interfere with brain development and behaviour is reviewed. Early environmental
deprivation, thwarting of behavioral response rules, and disruption of
habitat-dependent adaptation processes are shown to result in aberrant or
maladaptive brain functions. Current standard housing conditions could therefore 
compromise the utility of rodents for research, especially in behavioural
neuroscience. However, a better understanding of the animals' needs and of the
environmental factors involved in the control of behaviour could offer a
biological basis for refinement.


PMID: 11250003  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1535. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):202.

Nobel objections.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11250000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1536. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):201.

Britain's [correction of Britian's] embryo cloning law passed.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11249995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1537. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):200.

It's enough to raise your blood pressure!

Deuchars J, Deuchars S.


PMID: 11249993  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1538. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):199.

Alzheimer's disease: beta-amyloid hypothesis strengthened!

Gerlai R.


PMID: 11249992  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1539. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):199-200.

Is LTP good or bad for memory?

Nguyen PV.


PMID: 11249991  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1540. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):195-7.

Resolving the Heuser-Ceccarelli debate.

Wilkinson RS(1), Cole JC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. wilk@cellbio.wustl.edu

Nearly 30 years ago, a debate over two disparate models of synaptic vesicle
retrieval arose. Subsequent investigations to determine which model was correct
proved inconclusive and served only to further the debate. However, recent
evidence has begun to suggest that both models are valid and relevant in
understanding the complex nature of vesicle recycling.


PMID: 11249990  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1541. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):193-5.

Lipoprotein receptors: beacons to neurons?

Herz J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, UT Southwestern, 5323 Harry Hines Boulevard,
Dallas, TX 75390-9046, USA. herz@UTSouthwestern.edu

Lipoprotein receptors were originally considered simply as cellular transporters 
for cholesterol and other lipids. This view is rapidly changing. Signaling
functions have recently been recognized in several members of the low-density
lipoprotein receptor gene family. These Apolipoprotein E receptors are highly
expressed in the developing and in the mature nervous system, in which they
regulate crucial developmental processes and might also participate in synaptic
neurotransmission.


PMID: 11249989  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1542. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Apr;24(4):191-3.

From odor and pheromone transduction to the organization of the sense of smell.

Zufall F(1), Munger SD.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Program in Neuroscience, University of
Maryland, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA. fzufa001@umaryland.edu

Chemosensory neurons in the mammalian nose detect an array of odors and
pheromones that carry essential information about the animal's environment. How
the nose organizes this immense amount of information is a major question in
sensory biology. New evidence suggests that there are several subpopulations of
sensory neurons in the nose that project to different areas in the forebrain.
Strikingly, evidence is now emerging that several of these neuronal
subpopulations employ distinct second messenger cascades to transduce chemical
stimuli. This new understanding of the heterogeneity of chemosensory transduction
mechanisms offers the opportunity to use genetically altered animals to
specifically target these subpopulations. Such approaches should enable
researchers to examine the role that each of these subsystems could play in
chemosensory-dependent behaviors.


PMID: 11249988  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1543. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):137.

Directing AMPA receptor traffic.

Haas K.


PMID: 11294136  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1544. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):134-5.

Demyelinating diseases: from pathogenesis to repair strategies.

Liblau R(1), Fontaine B, Baron-Van Evercooren A, Wekerle H, Lassmann H.

Author information: 
(1)Inserm CJF 9711, Pitié-Salpêtrière School of Medicine, Paris, France.
106063.1005@compuserve.com


PMID: 11294135  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1545. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):132-3.

Neuronal nicotinic receptors: no smoke without fire!

Lodge D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Lilly Research Centre, Windlesham, Surrey, UK. lodge_david@lilly.com


PMID: 11294134  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1546. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):182-8.

Loss of normal huntingtin function: new developments in Huntington's disease
research.

Cattaneo E(1), Rigamonti D, Goffredo D, Zuccato C, Squitieri F, Sipione S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacological Sciences, Università di Milano, Via Balzaretti 9,
20133 Milano, Italy. elena.cattaneo@unimi.it

Huntington's disease is characterized by a loss of brain striatal neurons that
occurs as a consequence of an expansion of a CAG repeat in the huntingtin
protein. The resulting extended polyglutamine stretch confers a deleterious
gain-of-function to the protein. Analysis of the mutant protein has attracted
most of the research activity in the field, however re-examination of earlier
data and new results on the beneficial functions of normal huntingtin indicate
that loss of the normal protein function might actually equally contribute to the
pathology. Thus, complete elucidation of the physiological role(s) of huntingtin 
and its mode of action are essential and could lead to new therapeutic
approaches.


PMID: 11182459  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1547. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):176-81.

Structural determinants of fast inactivation of high voltage-activated Ca(2+)
channels.

Stotz SC(1), Zamponi GW.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology and Biophysics, Neuroscience Research Group, University of 
Calgary, Canada T2N 4N1.

The fast inactivation of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels is a key mechanism
that contributes to the precise control of Ca(2+) entry into excitable cells.
Recent advances have revealed that multiple structural elements contribute to the
intrinsic inactivation properties of the alpha(1) subunit, including its
cytoplasmic and transmembrane regions. Another major determinant of Ca(2+)
channel inactivation is the association with one of four types of ancillary beta 
subunits that differentially modulate the intrinsic inactivation properties of
the alpha(1) subunit. This could occur partly via interactions with the
N-terminal region of the alpha(1) subunit and through lipid modification of the
beta subunit. However, the latest findings suggest a mechanism in which fast
Ca(2+) channel inactivation could occur through physical occlusion of the pore of
the channel in a manner reminiscent of Na(+) and K(+) channel inactivation.


PMID: 11182458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1548. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):169-75.

Clues to the cochlear amplifier from the turtle ear.

Fettiplace R(1), Ricci AJ, Hackney CM.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, University of Wisconsin Medical School, Madison, WI 53706,
USA. fettiplace@physiology.wisc.edu

Sound stimuli are detected in the cochlea by vibration of hair bundles on sensory
hair cells, which activates mechanotransducer ion channels and generates an
electrical signal. Remarkably, the process can also work in reverse with
additional force being produced by the ion channels as they open and close,
evoking active movements of the hair bundle. These movements could supplement the
energy of the sound stimuli but to be effective they would need to be very fast. 
New measurements in the turtle ear have shown that such active bundle movements
occur with delays of less than a millisecond, and are triggered by the entry of
Ca(2+) into the cell via the mechanotransducer channel. Furthermore, their speed 
depends on the frequency to which the hair cell is most sensitive, suggesting
that such movements could be important in cochlear amplification and frequency
discrimination.


PMID: 11182457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1549. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):162-9.

Retroviral diseases of the nervous system: pathogenic host response or viral
gene-mediated neurovirulence?

Power C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurovirology Laboratory, Neuroscience Research Group, Department of Clinical 
Neuroscience, 3330 Hospital Drive NW, Calgary, Alberta, Canada T2N 4N1.
power@ucalgary.ca

Retroviruses represent an important group of RNA viruses that cause a spectrum of
nervous system diseases. Furthermore, newly recognized retroviral infections of
the nervous system and some retroviral vectors or proteins used for gene delivery
raise potential safety concerns. This article highlights different retroviruses
and their causative mechanisms of nervous system disease, or neurovirulence.
Specific sequences within retroviral genes might determine the development of
neurovirulence. Conversely, neurovirulent retroviruses also activate host immune 
responses, resulting in a neuropathogenic cascade that is mediated by
pro-inflammatory and neurotoxic molecules, ultimately culminating in neuronal
death. Thus, retroviral infections of the nervous system illustrate a molecular
interplay between distinct infectious agents and pathogenic host responses, which
results in neurovirulence.


PMID: 11182456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1550. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):155-62.

Generating diversity at GABAergic synapses.

Cherubini E(1), Conti F.

Author information: 
(1)Biophysics Sector, International School of Advanced Studies, I-34014 Trieste, 
Italy.

GABA-mediated transmission is characterized by high variability of synaptic
responses. Major contributors to this variability are: presynaptic factors,
including release probability and number of release sites; factors that determine
synaptic GABA transients in the cleft, including diffusion and the actions of
GABA transporters; and postsynaptic factors, including GABA(A) receptors
subtypes, their location and number, their modulation by endogenous and exogenous
factors, and their interactions with postsynaptic-anchoring proteins.


PMID: 11182455  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1551. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):146-54.

The roles of co-transmission in neural network modulation.

Nusbaum MP(1), Blitz DM, Swensen AM, Wood D, Marder E.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 215
Stemmler Hall, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. nusbaum@mail.upenn.edu

Neuromodulation provides considerable flexibility to the output of neural
networks. In spite of the extensive literature documenting the presence of
modulatory peptide co-transmitters in many neurons, considerably less is known
about the specific roles of co-transmission in circuit function. This review
describes some of the potential consequences of peptide co-transmission in
functional circuits, using specific examples from recent work on the actions of
identified peptidergic projection neurons acting on the multifunctional neural
network within the crustacean stomatogastric ganglion. This system reveals that
co-transmission provides projection neurons with a rich assortment of strategies 
for eliciting multiple outputs from a multifunctional network.


PMID: 11182454  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1552. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):142-5.

Sleep and the fruit fly.

Greenspan RJ(1), Tononi G, Cirelli C, Shaw PJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Neurosciences Institute, 10640 John Jay Hopkins Dr., San Diego, CA 92121, 
USA. greenspan@nsi.edu

The function of sleep remains a long-standing mystery in neurobiology. The
presence of a sleep-like state has recently been demonstrated in the fruit fly,
Drosophila melanogaster, meeting the essential behavioral criteria for sleep and 
also showing pharmacological and molecular correlates of mammalian sleep. This
development opens up the possibility of applying genetic analysis to the
identification of key molecular components of sleep. A mutant of monoamine
metabolism has already been found to affect the homeostatic regulation of
sleep-like behavior in the fly. The record of Drosophila in laying the
foundations for subsequent studies in mammals argues in favor of the force of
this new approach.


PMID: 11182453  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1553. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):139-40;discussion 140-1.

Kainate receptors keep the excitement high.

Lerma J.


PMID: 11182444  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1554. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Mar;24(3):129-30; discussion 131-2.

Abnormal cognition and behavior in preterm neonates linked to smaller brain
volumes.

Bhutta AT(1), Anand KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pediatrics, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, 800 Marshall 
Street, Little Rock, AR 72202-3591, USA.

Volumetric measurements of the brain regions in eight-year-old children indicate 
that the poor cognitive and behavioral outcomes noted in ex-preterm neonates are 
associated with reduced volumes of specific regions in the brain. Recent
literature suggests that this reduction might result from enhanced apoptosis or
excitotoxic damage to highly susceptible immature neurons.


PMID: 11182440  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1555. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):72-4.

Recent advances in neuralstem cell technologies.

Caldwell MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cambridge Centre for Brain Repair, University of Cambrige Forvie Site, UK.
mac28@hermes.cam.ac.uk


PMID: 11252266  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1556. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):71-2.

What you see is what you think--or is it?

Pellerin L(1), Sibson NR, Hadjikhani N, Hyder F.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Physiologie, Université de Lausanne, Switzerland.
luc.pellerin@iphysiol.unil.ch


PMID: 11252265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1557. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):122-6.

Tonic and burst firing: dual modes of thalamocortical relay.

Sherman SM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, State University of New York, Stony Brook, New
York, NY 11794-5230, USA. s.sherman@sunysb.edu

All thalamic relay cells exhibit two distinct response modes--tonic and
burst--that reflect the status of a voltage-dependent, intrinsic membrane
conductance. Both response modes efficiently relay information to the cortex in
behaving animals, but have markedly different consequences for information
processing. The lateral geniculate nucleus, which is the thalamic relay of
retinal information to cortex, provides a reasonable model for all of thalamus.
Compared with burst mode, geniculate relay cells that are firing in tonic mode
exhibit better linear summation, but have poorer detectability for visual
stimuli. The switch between the response modes can be controlled by nonretinal,
modulatory afferents to these cells, such as the feedback pathway from cortex.
This allows the thalamus to provide a dynamic relay that affects the nature and
format of information that reaches the cortex.


PMID: 11164943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1558. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):113-21.

Changes in visual perception at the time of saccades.

Ross J(1), Morrone MC, Goldberg ME, Burr DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Western Australia, Nedlands WA, 6907, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):316-8.

We frequently reposition our gaze by making rapid ballistic eye movements that
are called saccades. Saccades pose problems for the visual system, because they
generate rapid, large-field motion on the retina and change the relationship
between the object position in external space and the image position on the
retina. The brain must ignore the one and compensate for the other. Much progress
has been made in recent years in understanding the effects of saccades on visual 
function and elucidating the mechanisms responsible for them. Evidence suggests
that saccades trigger two distinct neural processes: (1) a suppression of visual 
sensitivity, specific to the magnocellular pathway, that dampens the sensation of
motion and (2) a gross perceptual distortion of visual space in anticipation of
the repositioning of gaze. Neurophysiological findings from several laboratories 
are beginning to identify the neural substrates involved in these effects.


PMID: 11164942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1559. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):107-13.

New molecules for hippocampal development.

Skutella T(1), Nitsch R.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Center and Institute for Anatomy, Department of Cell and
Neurobiology Humboldt University Hospital (Charité), Schumannstr. 20/21, 10117
Berlin, Germany.

Pathfinding by developing axons towards their proper targets is an essential step
in establishing appropriate neuronal connections. Recent work involving cell
culture assays and molecular biology strategies, including knockout animals,
strongly indicates that a complex network of guidance signals regulates the
formation of hippocampal connections during development. Outgrowing axons are
routed towards the hippocampal formation by specific expression of long-range
cues, which include secreted class 3 semaphorins, netrin 1 and Slit proteins.
Local membrane- or substrate-anchored molecules, such as ligands of the ephrin A 
subclass, provide layer-specific positional information. Understanding the
molecular mechanisms that underlie axonal guidance during hippocampal development
might be of importance in making therapeutic use of sprouting fibers, which are
produced following the loss of afferents in CNS lesion.


PMID: 11164941  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1560. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):99-106.

Atypical neural messengers.

Barañano DE(1), Ferris CD, Snyder SH.

Author information: 
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Dept of Neuroscience, 725 N.
Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Notions of what constitutes a neurotransmitter have changed markedly with the
advent in the past decade of synaptic molecules, which satisfy key
neurotransmitter criteria but differ radically from classical transmitters. Thus,
NO and carbon monoxide are neither stored in synaptic vesicles nor released by
exocytosis. These gases do not act via traditional receptors on postsynaptic
membranes. In addition, zinc, stored together with glutamate in synaptic
vesicles, appears to act as an 'antagonist' co-transmitter at the NMDA receptor, 
and although localized exclusively to glia, D-serine fulfills most
neurotransmitter criteria as an endogenous ligand for the 'glycine' site of NMDA 
receptors.


PMID: 11164940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1561. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):91-8.

Stress-triggered activation of gene expression in catecholaminergic systems:
dynamics of transcriptional events.

Sabban EL(1), Kvetnanský R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, New York Medical College,
Valhalla, NY 10595, USA.

Stress triggers important adaptive responses that enable an organism to cope with
a changing environment. However, when prolonged or repeated, stress can be
extremely harmful. The release of catecholamines is a key initial event in
responses to stressors and is followed by an increase in the expression of genes 
that encode catecholamine-synthesizing enzymes. This process is mediated by
transcriptional mechanisms in the adrenal medulla and the locus coeruleus. The
persistence of transcriptional activation depends on the duration and repetition 
of the stress. Recent work has begun to identify the various transcription
factors that are associated with brief or intermediate duration of a single or
repeated stress. These studies suggest that dynamic interplay is involved in
converting the transient increases in the rate of transcription into prolonged
(potentially adaptive or maladaptive) changes in gene expression.


PMID: 11164939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1562. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):85-90.

Prion and prejudice: normal protein and the synapse.

Brown DR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Tennis Court Road, Cambridge University,
Cambridge, UK CB2 1QW. drb33@cam.ac.uk

The word prion has become synonymous with unusual diseases, such as bovine
spongiform encephalopathy and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. However, there is also a
normal prion protein that does not cause disease. Until recently this highly
conserved and widely expressed glycoprotein has been overshadowed by its rogue
isoform. Now it is emerging that not only is this protein important for
understanding prion disease but it is also important for a healthy brain. The
normal cellular isoform of the prion protein is expressed at high levels at
synapses suggesting an important role in neuronal function. There is increasing
evidence that the normal prion protein binds copper and the resulting complex
possesses anti-oxidant activity, and that this, in turn, might have vital
implications for synaptic homeostasis.


PMID: 11164938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1563. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):79-85.

Evolving better brains: a need for neurotrophins?

Jaaro H(1), Beck G, Conticello SG, Fainzilber M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology, Department of Biological Chemistry,
Weizmann Institute of Science, 76100 Rehovot, Israel.

The NGF family of neurotrophins has a crucial role in regulating neuron numbers
during vertebrate development. Six years ago the prediction was made that
invertebrates with simple nervous systems, such as Caenorhabditis elegans, would 
lack neurotrophins. Surprisingly, it now appears that not only C. elegans but
also Drosophila melanogaster, lack homologs of the neurotrophins or their trk
receptors. Furthermore, functional studies indicate that control of neuronal
numbers in Drosophila is primarily dependent on steroids. By contrast, a
recognizable trk homolog exists in molluscs, a phylum that includes species with 
the most complex nervous systems in the invertebrate kingdom. This suggests that 
neurotrophic signaling mechanisms might be one of the prerequisites for evolution
of complex nervous systems. Expansion of the genome projects to other
invertebrates, such as molluscs and coelenterates, should provide new insights on
the molecular correlates of building complex brains.


PMID: 11164937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1564. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):78.

Tracking down the origins of HIV.

Sequeira S(1).

Author information: 
(1)soniatexas@hotmail.com


PMID: 11164934  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1565. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):78.

Cannabis goes to high court.

Orlando L.


PMID: 11164931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1566. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):77.

Does DNA damage sculpt the developing brain?

Mattson MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)mattsonm@grc.nia.nih.gov


PMID: 11164928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1567. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):76.

Dendritic receptors made to order.

Spier AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Spier@scripps.edu


PMID: 11164927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1568. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):75-6.

Pain relief--uncoupling morphine tolerance from dependency.

Allsopp T(1).

Author information: 
(1)timothy.allsopp@ed.ac.uk


PMID: 11164926  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1569. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):75.

LTP: variation between inbred mouse strains.

Gerlai R(1).

Author information: 
(1)gerlai_robert@lilly.com


PMID: 11164925  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1570. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Feb;24(2):69-71.

An arrow hits the Wnt signaling pathway.

Pleasure SJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodevelopmental Disorders Laboratory, Dept of Neurology, Room S256C, 513
Parnassus Avenue, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.
samuelp@itsa.ucsf.edu

A recent series of papers in Nature shows that low-density lipoprotein
receptor-related protein family members play a role in transduction of Wnt
signals. These findings, in addition to other work from the past two years, have 
important implications for the role of Wnts in neural development.


PMID: 11164924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1571. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):8-9.

Serine proteases and brain damage - contribution of the urokinase- plasminogen
activator system.

Schwab JM, Meyermann R, Schluesener HJ.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):75-80.
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):399-407.


PMID: 11261939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1572. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):8.

Cell numbers: can they be controlled without programmed cell death?

Guillery RW.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):483-90.


PMID: 11261938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1573. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):3-4.

Brain repair--new avenues to an eternal dream?

Klöcker N(1), Bähr M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Physiology II, University of Tübingen Medical School, Germany.


PMID: 11252247  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1574. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):10.

Force-feedback during human walking.

Capaday C.


PMID: 11252246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1575. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):54-63.

Independent component analysis at the neural cocktail party.

Brown GD(1), Yamada S, Sejnowski TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Computational Neurobiology Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological
Studies, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA.

'Independent component analysis' is a technique of data transformation that finds
independent sources of activity in recorded mixtures of sources. It can be used
to recover fluctuations of membrane potential from individual neurons in
multiple-detector optical recordings. There are some examples in which more than 
100 neurons can be separated simultaneously. Independent component analysis
automatically separates overlapping action potentials, recovers action potentials
of different sizes from the same neuron, removes artifacts and finds the position
of each neuron on the detector array. One limitation is that the number of
sources--neurons and artifacts--must be equal to or less than the number of
simultaneous recordings. Independent component analysis also has many other
applications in neuroscience including, removal of artifacts from EEG data,
identification of spatially independent brain regions in fMRI recordings and
determination of population codes in multi-unit recordings.


PMID: 11163888  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1576. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):47-53.

BDNF and epilepsy: too much of a good thing?

Binder DK(1), Croll SD, Gall CM, Scharfman HE.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurological Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, CA
94110, USA. dbinder@itsa.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jun;24(6):318-9.

Various studies have shown that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)
increases neuronal excitability and is localized and upregulated in areas
implicated in epileptogenesis. Seizure activity increases the expression of BDNF 
mRNA and protein, and recent studies have shown that interfering with BDNF signal
transduction inhibits the development of the epileptic state in vivo. These
results suggest that BDNF contributes to epileptogenesis. Further analysis of the
cellular and molecular mechanisms by which BDNF influences excitability and
connectivity in adult brain could provide novel concepts and targets for
anticonvulsant or anti-epileptogenic therapy.


PMID: 11163887  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1577. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):39-47.

The oligodendrocyte precursor cell in health and disease.

Levine JM(1), Reynolds R, Fawcett JW.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology and Behavior, SUNY, Stony Brook, NY 11794, USA.

Adult oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) make up around 5-8% of the glial
cell population in the CNS. Their function in the undamaged CNS is largely
unknown, but their processes are in contact with nodes of Ranvier and synapses,
suggesting a regulatory role at these structures. The cells divide slowly, and
constitute approximately 70% of cells labelled following a pulse injection of
bromodeoxyuridine. In the injured CNS the cells form a reactive glial population 
that undergoes hypertrophy and mitosis, probably driven by a variety of growth
factors and cytokines. In response to demyelination they divide and are thought
to differentiate to provide new oligodendrocytes to replace those that have been 
lost. However, remyelination fails during the later stages of multiple sclerosis,
and it is not clear whether this is as a result of a depletion of adult OPCs,
inhibition within the glial scar, or damage to the axons that prevents
myelination. Adult OPCs are also activated and proliferate following other forms 
of CNS damage, such as mechanical injury, excitotoxicity and viral infection. The
cells produce several of the chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans that might
inhibit axon regeneration.


PMID: 11163886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1578. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):32-9.

Regionalization of the optic tectum: combinations of gene expression that define 
the tectum.

Nakamura H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Molecular Neurobiology, Institute of Development, Aging and Cancer,
Tohoku University, Seiryo-machi 4-1, Aoba-ku, 980-8575, Sendai, Japan.
nakamura@idac.tohoku.ac.jp

The optic tectum differentiates from the alar plate of the mesencephalon. Here,
the molecular mechanisms for differentiation of the tectum are reviewed.
Mis-expression of Pax2, Pax5 or En can change the fate of the presumptive
diencephalon to become the tectum. En, Fgf8, Pax2 and Pax5, exist in a positive
feedback loop for their expression so that mis-expression of any of these genes
acts on the feedback loop resulting in induction of the optic tectum in the
diencephalon. Otx2 and Gbx2 can repress the expression of each other and
contribute to the formation of the posterior border of the tectum. Mis-expression
of Otx2 in the metencephalon changed the fate of its alar plate to the tectum.
The anterior border of the tectum might be determined as a result of repressive
interaction of Pax6 with En1 and Pax2. Along the dorsoventral axis of the
mesencephalon, Shh contributes to the ventralization of the tissue, that is, the 
area affected by Shh differentiates into the tegmentum. It is proposed that the
brain vesicle that expresses Otx2, Pax2 and En1 might differentiate into the
tectum.


PMID: 11163885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1579. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):25-31.

Activation of cell-cycle-associated proteins in neuronal death: a mandatory or
dispensable path?

Copani A(1), Uberti D, Sortino MA, Bruno V, Nicoletti F, Memo M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Catania, Viale A. Doria 6,
95125, Catania, Italy.

Cell-cycle-related proteins, such as cyclins or cyclin-dependent kinases, are
re-expressed in neurons committed to death in response to a variety of insults,
including excitotoxins, hypoxia and ischemia, loss of trophic support, or
beta-amyloid peptide. In some of these conditions events that are typical of the 
mid-G1 phase, such as cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 activation, are required for
the induction of neuronal death. In other cases, the cycle must proceed further
and recruit steps that are typical of the G1/S transition for death to occur.
Finally, there are conditions in which cell-cycle proteins might be re-expressed,
but do not contribute to neuronal death. We hypothesize that cell-cycle signaling
becomes a mandatory component of neuronal demise when other mechanisms are not
enough for neurons to reach the threshold for death. Under this scheme, the death
threshold is set by the extent of DNA damage. Whenever the extent of DNA damage
is below this threshold, a cell-cycle signaling becomes crucial for the induction
of neuronal death through p53-dependent or -independent pathways.


PMID: 11163884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1580. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):18-25.

Biochemical networks in nervous systems: expanding neuronal information capacity 
beyond voltage signals.

Katz PS(1), Clemens S.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Communication and Computation, Dept of Biology, Georgia
State University, Atlanta, GA 30303, USA. biopsk@panther.gsu.edu

In addition to synaptically mediated signals that are based on changes in
membrane potential, neurons also generate and receive many types of signals that 
involve biochemical pathways, some of which are independent of voltage. Although 
networks of biochemical pathways have often been thought of as being only
neuromodulatory, recent computational and experimental studies have highlighted
how these pathways can also integrate and transfer information themselves.
Interactions between biochemical pathways involving positive and negative
feedback loops allow biochemical signals to exhibit emergent properties, most
notably bistability and oscillations. New and evolving techniques, including
real-time imaging of second messengers, hold the promise of illuminating
information processing that cannot be detected using microelectrodes, and
revealing how 'biochemical integration' might contribute to the computational
abilities of the nervous system.


PMID: 11163883  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1581. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):11-7.

Two-dimensional versus three-dimensional cell counting: a practical perspective.

Benes FM(1), Lange N.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Structural Neuroscience, McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA, USA.
benesf@mclean.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):504-6.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):377-80.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):376-7; author reply 378-80.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):375-6; author reply 378-80.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):374; author reply 378-80.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):374-5; author reply 378-80.

In recent years, it has been argued by some neuroanatomists that
three-dimensional (3-D) counting approaches must be used in studies of neural
systems, so that 'unbiased' counts of neurons can be obtained. By contrast,
two-dimensional (2-D) cell-counting methods are said to be 'assumption-based' and
to yield inaccurate results. Working from the premise that all scientific
methodologies are assumption-based and suffer from inherent biases, the current
review considers the relative strengths and weaknesses of 2-D versus 3-D counting
approaches. This comparison is from the standpoint of predictive performance with
respect to bias, variance and fidelity to the actual spatial arrangements of
cells in the tissue under study. When these considerations are taken, together
with the human resources that are required in using either methodology, 2-D
methods offer more practical alternatives that might even provide more
scientifically accurate estimates compared with their 3-D counterparts.


PMID: 11163882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1582. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):7.

Old spines can't dance.

Haas K.


PMID: 11163877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1583. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):6.

Left-right brain asymmetry: lessons from the heart.

Fekete DM.


PMID: 11163876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1584. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):5-6.

Knockout mice highlight the promise of purines.

Deuchars J.


PMID: 11163875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1585. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):5.

New blood cells help an overburdened brain.

Mattson MP.


PMID: 11163874  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1586. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):2-3.

Sex and the single neuron: pheromones excite.

Liman ER(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Biological Sciences and Program in Neurosciences, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles, 90089-2520, USA. Liman@USC.edu


PMID: 11163873  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1587. Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):1.

Editorial.

Lewis S.


PMID: 11163872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1588. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):611-2.

Evolving cell death in the virus-infected nervous system.

Krakauer DC.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jul;23(7):284-90.


PMID: 11221776  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1589. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):639-45.

The neurotrophin hypothesis for synaptic plasticity.

Schinder AF(1), Poo M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology, University of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA
92093-0357, USA.

The neurotrophin hypothesis proposes that neurotrophins participate in
activity-induced modification of synaptic transmission. Increasingly, evidence
indicates that the synthesis, secretion and actions of neurotrophins on synaptic 
transmission are regulated by electrical activity and that neurotrophins
themselves can acutely modify synaptic efficacy. Neurotrophins appear to exert
either a permissive or instructive role on activity-dependent synaptic
potentiation and depression, which depends on the particular synaptic connections
and developmental stages. The characteristics of synaptic changes that are
induced by neurotrophins suggest that this family of proteins is crucial for
providing a molecular background in which activity-dependent plasticity can occur
at selective synaptic sites within the neural network.


PMID: 11137155  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1590. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):633-8.

The evolution of cortical development. An hypothesis based on the role of the
Reelin signaling pathway.

Bar I(1), Lambert de Rouvroit C, Goffinet AM.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Unit, University of Namur, School of Medicine, 61 rue de
Bruxelles, B-5000, Namur, Belgium.

Expression of the genes encoding Reelin and Dab1 during cortical development in
turtle, lizard, chick and mammals correlates with architectonic patterns. In all 
species, Reelin is secreted by marginal zone cells, whereas Dab1, which mediates 
the response to Reelin, is synthesized by cortical plate neurons. This pattern
was presumably present in stem amniotes. In mammals, the cortical plate is
radially organized and develops from inside to outside, these features depend on 
amplification of reelin synthesis in the marginal zone. In lizards, the cortical 
plate develops from outside to inside, similar to other non-mammals, but is
radially organized, with an additional layer of Reelin added in the subcortex.
Thus, the Reelin pathway played a key role in cortical architectonic evolution in
mammalian and squamate lineages.


PMID: 11137154  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1591. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):625-33.

ATP: an extracellular signaling molecule between neurons and glia.

Fields RD(1), Stevens B.

Author information: 
(1)Neurocytology and Physiology Unit, Laboratory of Developmental Neurobiology at
the National Institutes of Health, NICHD, Bldg 49, Room 5A38, 49 Convent Drive,
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Recent studies on Schwann cells at the neuromuscular junction and non-synaptic
regions of premyelinated axons indicate that extracellular ATP can act as an
activity-dependent signaling molecule in communication between neurons and glia. 
Several mechanisms have been observed for the regulated release of ATP from
synaptic and non-synaptic regions, and a diverse family of receptors for
extracellular ATP has been characterized. The findings suggest functional
consequences of neuron-glial communication beyond homeostasis of the
extracellular environment surrounding neurons, including regulating synaptic
strength, gene expression, mitotic rate, and differentiation of glia according to
impulse activity in neural circuits.


PMID: 11137153  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1592. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):618-25.

Interleukin 1 in the brain: biology, pathology and therapeutic target.

Rothwell NJ(1), Luheshi GN.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, 1.124 Stopford Building, University of, M13
9PT, Manchester, UK.

The cytokine interleukin 1 (IL-1) has diverse actions in the brain. In normal
brain the IL-1 system is expressed at low levels and is upregulated rapidly in
response to local or peripheral insults. IL-1 mediates host defence responses to 
local and systemic disease and injury (e.g. fever, slow-wave sleep, appetite
suppression and neuroendocrine responses) and to neuroinflammation and cell death
in neurodegenerative conditions, such as stroke and head injury. It has also been
implicated in chronic degenerative diseases, in particular, multiple sclerosis,
Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases. The mechanisms regulating the expression
and action of IL-1 are poorly understood, but involve multiple effects on
neuronal, glial and endothelial cell function. Thus, the IL-1 system provides an 
attractive and intensely competitive target for therapeutic intervention.


PMID: 11137152  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1593. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):613-7.

How are visual areas of the brain connected to motor areas for the sensory
guidance of movement?

Glickstein M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy, University College London, Gower Street, WC1E 6BT., London,
UK.

Visual areas of the brain must be connected to motor areas for the sensory
guidance of movement. The first step in the pathway from the primary visual
cortex is by way of the dorsal stream of visual areas in the parietal lobe. The
fact that monkeys can still guide their limbs visually after cortico-cortical
fibres have been severed suggests that there are subcortical routes that link
visual and motor areas of the brain. The pathway that runs from the pons and
cerebellum is the largest of these. Pontine cells that receive inputs from visual
cortical areas or the superior colliculus respond vigorously to appropriate
visual stimuli and project widely on the cerebellar cortex. A challenge for
future research is to elucidate the role of these cerebellar target areas in
visuo-motor control.


PMID: 11137151  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1594. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):605-10.

5-HT(3) receptors and neurotransmitter release in the CNS: a nerve ending story?

van Hooft JA(1), Vijverberg HP.

Author information: 
(1)University of Amsterdam, Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, Section
Neurobiology, PO Box 94084, NL-1090 GB, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Serotonin (5-HT) 5-HT(3) receptors are ligand-gated ion channels, which are
generally thought to be involved in the presynaptic modulation of
neurotransmitter release. However, analysis of published data reveals that most
of the evidence for the alleged presynaptic role of 5-HT(3) receptors in
modulating CNS neurotransmitter release is not compelling. Nevertheless, 5-HT(3) 
receptors are present in nerve terminals from some brain regions. The increased
basic knowledge of the cellular physiology of central 5-HT(3) receptor
ligand-gated ion channels provides opportunities for a detailed characterization 
of the specific presynaptic effects of 5-HT(3) receptors. Such reconsideration is
required for the full appreciation of the functional role of 5-HT(3) receptors in
the CNS.


PMID: 11137150  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1595. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):599-605.

Mechanisms underlying neural cell death in neurodegenerative diseases:
alterations of a developmentally-mediated cellular rheostat.

Mehler MF(1), Gokhan S.

Author information: 
(1)Depts of Neurology, Neuroscience and Psychiatry, Rose F. Kennedy Centerfor
Research in Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities, Einstein
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY
10461, USA.

Genes associated with neurodegenerative diseases are normally expressed
throughout neural development and are essential for the elaboration and
maintenance of neuronal subpopulations. Disease-causing mutations can compromise 
defined subsets of these neural specification events in subtle ways that
initially lead to impairments in the cellular homeostasis of evolving regional
neuronal subpopulations, and adult-onset cell death from normally non-lethal
environmental stressors. Neurodegenerative diseases may, therefore, represent an 
emerging class of developmental disorders characterized by novel biological
responses to subthreshold neurodevelopmental abnormalities that impair targeted
neuronal biosynthetic pathways without causing obvious developmental deficits.
This developmental model of pathogenesis predicts that it will soon be possible
to identify these dysfunctional pathways prior to the occurrence of irreversible 
cellular injury, and to successfully intervene using innovative neuroprotective
and neural regenerative strategies.


PMID: 11137149  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1596. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):594-8.

Early electron microscopic observations of synaptic structures in the cerebral
cortex: a view of the contributions made by George Gray (1924-1999).

Guillery RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, 1300 University
Avenue, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

The first clear account of synaptic structures in the cerebral cortex was
provided by George Gray in 1959. Here we look at the background to this study,
which established some clear structural distinctions between synaptic types, and 
enquire about the extent to which these distinctions can be related to
contemporary knowledge of synaptic organization.


PMID: 11137148  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1597. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):593.

Transduction of survival signals in neurons - take your PIK?

Allsopp TE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, Laboratory for Clinical and Molecular Virology,
University of Edinburgh, EH8 9JZ., Edinburgh, UK.


PMID: 11137147  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1598. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):592.

Ephrin cleavage: a missing link in axon guidance.

Guthrie S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy, Guy's Hospital, London Bridge, SE1 9RT., London, UK.


PMID: 11137146  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1599. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):591-2.

NRAGE and the cycling side of the neurotrophin receptor p75.

Frade JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Instituto Cajal, CSIC, Avda. Doctor Arce 37, 28002,., Madrid, Spain.


PMID: 11137145  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1600. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):649.

Erratum

[No authors listed]


PMID: 11137156  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1601. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):530.

The ganglionic eminence--new vistas.

Ulfig N.


PMID: 11185391  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1602. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):528-30.

Control of a 'simple' stretch reflex in humans.

Capaday C.


PMID: 11185390  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1603. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):580-7.

Kainate, a double agent that generates seizures: two decades of progress.

Ben-Ari Y(1), Cossart R.

Author information: 
(1)The INMED, INSERM U29, Parc scientifique de Luminy, BP 13, 13273, Marseille,
France.

Studies using kainate, an excitatory amino acid extracted from a seaweed, have
provided major contributions to the understanding of epileptogenesis. Here we
review pioneering and more recent studies aimed at determining how kainate
generates seizures and, in particular, how inhibition is altered during seizures.
We focus on target and subunit-specific effects of kainate on hippocampal
pyramidal neurons and interneurons that lead to an excitation of both types of
neurons and thus to the parallel increase of glutamatergic and GABAergic
spontaneous currents. We propose that kainate excites all its targets, the net
consequence depending on the level of activity of the network.


PMID: 11074268  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1604. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):571-9.

The distinct modes of vision offered by feedforward and recurrent processing.

Lamme VA(1), Roelfsema PR.

Author information: 
(1)The Graduate School of Neurosciences, Dept Visual System Analysis, AMC,
University of Amsterdam, PO Box 12011, 1100 AA, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

An analysis of response latencies shows that when an image is presented to the
visual system, neuronal activity is rapidly routed to a large number of visual
areas. However, the activity of cortical neurons is not determined by this
feedforward sweep alone. Horizontal connections within areas, and higher areas
providing feedback, result in dynamic changes in tuning. The differences between 
feedforward and recurrent processing could prove pivotal in understanding the
distinctions between attentive and pre-attentive vision as well as between
conscious and unconscious vision. The feedforward sweep rapidly groups feature
constellations that are hardwired in the visual brain, yet is probably incapable 
of yielding visual awareness; in many cases, recurrent processing is necessary
before the features of an object are attentively grouped and the stimulus can
enter consciousness.


PMID: 11074267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1605. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):565-70.

In search of an enzyme: the beta-secretase of Alzheimer's disease is an aspartic 
proteinase.

Howlett DR(1), Simmons DL, Dingwall C, Christie G.

Author information: 
(1)The Dept of Neuroscience Research, SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, New
Frontiers Science Park, Third Avenue, Essex, CM19 5AW, Harlow, UK.

The deposition of beta-amyloid (Abeta) in the brain is a neuropathological
feature of Alzheimer's disease. Abeta is cleaved from its precursor protein (APP)
by processing at its N and C termini by enzymes known as beta- and
gamma-secretases,respectively. The identity of these enzymes has been elusive but
the search for the N-terminal secretase might have ended recently with the almost
simultaneous publication by five major laboratories claiming a transmembrane
aspartic proteinase to be the long sought after beta-secretase. Even at this
early stage of its characterization, this aspartic proteinase fulfils many of the
key criteria necessary for beta-secretase. The race is now on to develop
inhibitors that could prove effective in halting the progression of Alzheimer's
disease.


PMID: 11074266  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1606. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):557-65.

Cellular and molecular features of axon collaterals and dendrites.

Acebes A(1), Ferrús A.

Author information: 
(1)The Instituto Cajal (CSIC), 28002, Madrid, Spain.

Neural geometry is the major factor that determines connectivity and, possibly,
functional output from a nervous system. Recently some of the proteins and
pathways involved in specific modes of branch formation or maintenance, or both, 
have been described. To a variable extent, dendrites and axon collaterals can be 
viewed as dynamic structures subject to fine modulation that can result either in
further growth or retraction. Each form of branching results from specific
molecular mechanisms. Cell-internal, substrate-derived factors and functional
activity, however, can often differ in their effect according to cell type and
physiological context at the site of branch formation. Neural branching is not a 
linear process but an integrative one that takes place in a microenvironment
where we have only a limited experimental access. To attain a coherent mechanism 
for this phenomenon, quantitative in situ data on the proteins involved and their
interactions will be required.


PMID: 11074265  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1607. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):550-5.

Crosstalk between nervous and immune systems through the animal kingdom: focus on
opioids.

Salzet M(1), Vieau D, Day R.

Author information: 
(1)The Laboratoire d'Endocrinologie des Annélides, UPRES-A CNRS 8017, SN3,
Université des Sciences et Technologies de Lille, 59655, Villeneuve d'Ascq,
France.

During the course of evolution invertebrates and vertebrates have maintained
common signaling molecules, such as neuropeptides. For example, complete
hormonal-enzymatic systems for the biosynthesis of opioid peptides have been
found in both the CNS and immune systems of these animals. These signaling
molecules have been found in the blood circulation and act as immunomodulators.
In vertebrates, release of the signaling molecules occurs during stress
(cognitive or pathogens), which triggers the hypothalamo-hypophysial-adrenal
axis. Similarly, these neuropeptides are used as messengers to initiate and
stimulate the innate immune response in invertebrates. Thus, the crosstalk
between nervous and immune systems has an ancient evolutionary origin and the
messengers used have been conserved during the course of evolution reflecting
their vital importance.


PMID: 11074264  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1608. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):542-9.

Cognition and synaptic plasticity in diabetes mellitus.

Gispen WH(1), Biessels GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Medical Pharmacology, Rudolf Magnus Institute for Neurosciences,
University Medical Centre Utrecht, PO Box 85060Box 3508AB, Utrecht, The
Netherlands.

Diabetes mellitus is associated with cognitive deficits and an increased risk of 
dementia, particularly in the elderly. These deficits are paralleled by
neurophysiological and structural changes in the brain. In animal models of
diabetes, impairments of spatial learning occur in association with distinct
changes in hippocampal synaptic plasticity. At the molecular level these
impairments might involve changes in glutamate-receptor subtypes, in
second-messenger systems and in protein kinases. The multifactorial pathogenesis 
of diabetic encephalopathy is not yet completely understood, but clearly shares
features with brain ageing and the pathogenesis of diabetic neuropathy. It
involves both metabolic and vascular changes, related to chronic hyperglycaemia, 
but probably also defects in insulin action in the brain. Treatment with insulin 
might therefore not only correct hyperglycaemia, but could also directly affect
the brain.


PMID: 11074263  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1609. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):531-41.

Harnessing the power of forward genetics--analysis of neuronal diversity and
patterning in the zebrafish retina.

Malicki J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02134, USA.
www.howelaboratory.harvard.edu/malicki/htm

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2001 Jan;24(1):67.

The seven major cell classes of the vertebrate retina are organized with
remarkable precision into distinct layers. The appearance of this architecture
during embryogenesis raises two questions of general importance. How do
individual cell classes acquire their specialized structures and functions if
they all originate from a morphologically uniform cell population? What
mechanisms are responsible for the formation of such a complex and exact pattern?
Recent advances present an opportunity to apply the tools of forward genetic
analysis to identify mutations that affect these mechanisms in zebrafish.
Molecular characterization will follow, providing insight into the basis of
neuronal patterning in the vertebrate CNS.


PMID: 11074262  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1610. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):519-27.

What is the brain?

Swanson LW(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Neuroscience Program, The University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
CA 90089-2520, USA.

From a structural perspective, there are ten basic parts of the vertebrate CNS
that are almost universally agreed upon. These parts have been grouped in at
least five different ways corresponding to five different theories about its
basic plan or architecture. Two classical models that remain popular today are
derived from (1) comparative anatomy and the body's segmental organization, and
(2) comparative embryology and the neural tube's transverse and longitudinal
organization. A new approach is concerned with deciphering the genetic program
that assembles the nervous system during embryogenesis; how it will correspond to
the other models remains to be determined. The simplest current model to explain 
the organization of the mammalian nervous system involves a segmental trunk that 
mediates reflex sensory-motor functions, and suprasegmental cerebral hemispheres 
and cerebellum.


PMID: 11074261  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1611. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):514-9.

Axonal flip-flops and oscillators.

Baker MD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology, Medawar Building, University College London, Gower Street,
WC1E 6BT, London, UK.

The strange and unpleasant sensations (paraesthesiae) or asynchronous motor-unit 
activation (fasciculation) that result from a period of limb ischaemia are
examples of ectopic discharge in peripheral nerves. Ectopic activity also results
from demyelination and is associated with serious neurological conditions, such
as multiple sclerosis. A build-up of extracellular K(+) in the internode and
persistent Na(+) currents are now implicated in generating the different forms of
activity arising in normal and demyelinated axons.


PMID: 11074260  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1612. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):510.

NEUROSCION. A meeting of minds

[No authors listed]


PMID: 11074259  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1613. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):509-10.

Farewell

Swanson GJ.


PMID: 11074258  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1614. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Nov;23(11):509.

Editorial

Lewis S.


PMID: 11074257  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1615. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S1-126.

Basal ganglia, Parkinson's disease and levodopa therapy. Proceedings of a
meeting. St Thomas, Virgin Islands, January 2000.

[No authors listed]


PMID: 11221749  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1616. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):467-8.

Un pour tous, tous pour un.

Lowenstein PR.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jul;23(7):284-90.


PMID: 11203140  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1617. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):466-7.

Silencing survival data.

Mattson MP(1), Barger SW, Dantzer R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging, Baltimore, MD 21224,
USA.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Apr;23(4):175-80.


PMID: 11203139  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1618. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S117-26.

Continuous dopamine-receptor stimulation in early Parkinson's disease.

Olanow W(1), Schapira AH, Rascol O.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA.

Chronic L-dopa therapy is associated with the development of motor complications 
in the majority of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Although the precise
mechanism responsible for these events is not known, increasing laboratory and
clinical evidence points to a sequence of events that is initiated by abnormal
pulsatile stimulation of dopamine receptors by the intermittent administration of
agents with short half-lives such as L-dopa. Initiating therapy with a
long-acting dopamine agonist has been shown to delay the onset and reduce the
severity of motor complications in MPTP monkeys and PD patients. Administering
L-dopa with a catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor to block its
peripheral metabolism increases its plasma half-life and might have a similar
effect. Thus, a rational strategy for treating PD would be to initiate therapy
with a long-acting dopamine-receptor agonist and supplement at the appropriate
time with L-dopa combined with a COMT inhibitor.


PMID: 11052229  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1619. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S109-15.

Continuous dopamine-receptor stimulation in advanced Parkinson's disease.

Nutt JG(1), Obeso JA, Stocchi F.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 97201, USA.

Intermittent or pulsatile dopamine-receptor stimulation is postulated to induce
plastic changes in motor systems that are responsible for the development of the 
motor fluctuations and dyskinesia that complicate long-term L-dopa therapy of
Parkinson's disease. As a corollary to this hypothesis, continuous
dopamine-receptor stimulation can avoid or reverse these complications. Such
continuous stimulation is unlikely to mimic completely the normal function of the
dopaminergic system, but should avoid the supra-physiological swings in
extracellular dopamine that accompany intermittent L-dopa dosing. The concern is 
that this continuous stimulation might induce tolerance rather than sensitization
to some effects of L-dopa. Open clinical trials support the value of continuous
dopaminergic stimulation in Parkinson's disease with established motor
complications, but rigorous studies, although experimentally difficult, are
needed.


PMID: 11052228  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1620. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S101-8.

PET studies and motor complications in Parkinson's disease.

Brooks DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Clinical Sciences Centre, Imperial College School of Medicine, Hammersmith
Hospital, London, UK.

Parkinson's disease (PD) patients with motor complications show a greater
reduction in putamen [18F]dopa uptake on positron emission tomography (PET)
compared with sustained responders to L-dopa, although individual ranges overlap 
considerably. This implies that, although loss of putamen dopamine storage
predisposes motor complications in PD, it cannot be the only factor determining
timing of onset. Additional PET studies suggest that loss of striatal dopamine
storage capacity along with pulsatile exposure to exogenous L-dopa results in
pathologically raised synaptic dopamine levels and deranged basal ganglia opioid 
transmission.This, rather than altered dopamine receptor binding, then causes
inappropriate overactivity of basal ganglia-frontal projections, resulting in
breakthrough involuntary movements.


PMID: 11052227  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1621. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S92-100.

Dopamine-receptor stimulation: biobehavioral and biochemical consequences.

Calon F(1), Hadj Tahar A, Blanchet PJ, Morissette M, Grondin R, Goulet M, Doucet 
JP, Robertson GS, Nestler E, Di Paolo T, Bédard PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Oncology and Molecular Endocrinology Research Unit, Laval University Medical
Center CHUL, Québec, Canada.

The MPTP monkey is a well-characterized animal model of parkinsonism and provides
an exceptional tool for the study of dyskinesias induced by dopamine-like agents.
Several such agents have been tested during the past 15 years, and it has been
found that the duration of action of these compounds is the most reliable
variable with which to predict their dyskinesiogenic profile. It is proposed that
L-dopa-induced dyskinesias represent a form of pathological learning caused by
chronic pulsatile (nonphysiological) stimulation of dopamine receptors, which
activates a cascade of molecular and biochemical events. These events include
defective regulation of Fos proteins that belong to the deltaFosB family,
increased expression of neuropeptides, and defective GABA- and glutamate-mediated
neurotransmission in the output structures of the basal ganglia.


PMID: 11052226  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1622. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S86-91.

Striatal dopamine- and glutamate-mediated dysregulation in experimental
parkinsonism.

Chase TN(1), Oh JD.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Therapeutics Branch, National Institute of Neurological Disorders
and Stroke, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Characteristic changes involving interactions between dopamine and glutamate in
striatal medium spiny neurons now appear to contribute to symptom production in
Parkinson's disease (PD). The balance between kinase and phosphatase signaling
modifies the phosphorylation state of glutamate receptors and thus their synaptic
strength. Sensitization of spiny-neuron NMDA and AMPA receptors alters cortical
glutamatergic input to the striatum and modifies striatal GABAergic output, and
thus motor function. Conceivably, the pharmacological targeting of spiny-neuron
mechanisms modified in PD will provide a safer and more effective therapy.


PMID: 11052225  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1623. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S78-85.

Metabolic effects of nigrostriatal denervation in basal ganglia.

Hirsch EC(1), Périer C, Orieux G, François C, Féger J, Yelnik J, Vila M, Levy R, 
Tolosa ES, Marin C, Trinidad Herrero M, Obeso JA, Agid Y.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U289, Mécanismes et Conséquences de la Mort Neuronale, Hôpital de la
Salpêtrière, Paris, France.

In the past, functional changes in the circuitry of the basal ganglia that occur 
in Parkinson's disease were primarily analyzed with electrophysiological and
2-deoxyglucose measurements. The increased activity of the subthalamic nucleus
(STN) observed has been attributed to a reduction in inhibition mediated by the
external segment of the globus pallidus (GPe), secondary to the loss of
dopaminergic-neuron influence on D2-receptor-bearing striato-pallidal neurons.
More recently, in situ hybridization studies of cytochrome oxidase subunit I have
confirmed the overactivity of the STN in the parkinsonian state. In addition,
this technique has provided evidence that the change in STN activity is owing not
only to decreased inhibition from the GPe but to hyperactivity of excitatory
inputs from the parafascicular nucleus of the thalamus and the pedunculopontine
nucleus in the brainstem.


PMID: 11052224  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1624. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S71-7.

Levodopa-induced dyskinesias and dopamine-dependent stereotypies: a new
hypothesis.

Graybiel AM(1), Canales JJ, Capper-Loup C.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge 02139, USA.

The basal ganglia are thought to modulate the release or inhibition of movements 
by way of direct and indirect pathways that act as a push-pull system of
cortico-basal ganglia circuits. Here we suggest a three-pathway model of the
basal ganglia that takes into consideration the fundamental division of the
striatum into striosomes and extrastriosomal matrix. We suggest that, in addition
to the balance between direct and indirect pathways on which normal release of
individual movements depends, the balance of activity between these matrix-based 
pathways and the striosomal pathway regulates the frequency of release of given
behavioral sequences and, thus, modulates behavioral focus. Differential
plasticity in these compartmentally organized circuits might contribute to the
development of L-dopa-induced dyskinesias under parkinsonian conditions and
dopamine-receptor-agonist induced stereotypies under normal conditions.


PMID: 11052223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1625. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S64-70.

Molecular effects of dopamine on striatal-projection pathways.

Gerfen CR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Systems Neuroscience, National Institute of Mental Health,
Bethesda, MD 20892-4075, USA.

Gene regulation studies demonstrate that dopamine differentially regulates the
direct and indirect projection neurons of the striatum through their respective
expression of the D1 and D2 dopamine receptors. Induction of immediate-early
genes (IEGs) in striatal neurons is used to study dopamine-receptor-mediated
neuronal plasticity. In the dopamine-depleted striatum there is a switch in
receptor-mediated signal transduction mechanisms to produce a supersensitive form
of D1- mediated neuronal plasticity. This switch is suggested to underlie
dopamine-agonist-induced dyskinetic movements that develop during the treatment
of Parkinson's disease.


PMID: 11052222  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1626. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S57-63.

Electrophysiology of dopamine in normal and denervated striatal neurons.

Calabresi P(1), Centonze D, Bernardi G.

Author information: 
(1)Cliníca Neurologica, Dipartimento di Neuroscienze, Università di Roma Tor
Vergata, Rome, Italy.

Parkinson's disease (PD) symptoms originate from the loss of the dopaminergic
control of neuronal activity in the striatum. Permanent loss of dopaminergic
terminals in the striatum results in an abnormal activity of striatal neurons.
The therapeutic treatment with exogenous dopamine, therefore, temporarily
restores a balanced synaptic excitation of striatal neurons, counteracting pre-
and postsynaptically the excessive glutamate release caused by the degeneration
of nigrostriatal dopaminergic fibers. However, chronic treatment is associated
with adverse effects that might reflect nonphysiological dopamine replacement.
Basic studies on experimental animal models of PD are of crucial importance for
the development of therapeutic agents able to provide relief to individuals with 
PD, without the adverse effects associated with currently available drugs.


PMID: 11052221  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1627. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S48-56.

Dopamine-mediated regulation of striatal neuronal and network interactions.

Onn SP(1), West AR, Grace AA.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology and Anatomy, MCP Hahnemann University, Philadelphia, PA
19129, USA.

The dopaminergic system exerts dynamic modulation of glutamatergic afferent drive
that is dependent on the temporal pattern of the dopaminergic input and the
subtypes of striatal neurons affected. The differences in feedforward inhibition 
between striatal neurons comprising the direct and indirect output pathway confer
distinct response-pattern differences in their respective targets,supporting
brief bursts of activity in Type-I neurons but attenuating repetitive activity in
Type-II cells. This temporal patterning is further modulated by NO-mediated
signaling, and by tonic and phasic dopamine-mediated stimulation, which exerts
preferential actions on indirect and direct output neurons, respectively. As a
result,the striatal network is forced into state-dependent patterns of activity
that differentially regulate muscle tone and voluntary motor activity via
distinct output projections from the striatum.


PMID: 11052220  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1628. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S41-7.

Pre- and postsynaptic aspects of dopamine-mediated transmission.

Walters JR(1), Ruskin DN, Allers KA, Bergstrom DA.

Author information: 
(1)Experimental Therapeutics Branch, National Institute of Neurological Disorders
and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1406, USA.

Dopamine agonist administration induces changes in firing rate and pattern in
basal ganglia nuclei that provide an insight into the role of dopamine in basal
ganglia function. These changes support a more complex, integrated basal ganglia 
network than envisioned in early models. Functionally important effects on basal 
ganglia output involve alterations in burstiness, synchronization and oscillatory
activity,as well as rate. Multisecond oscillations in basal ganglia firing rates 
are markedly affected by systemic administration of dopamine-receptor agonists.
This suggests that coordinated changes in neuronal activity at time scales longer
than commonly investigated play a role in the cognitive and motor processes that 
are modulated by dopamine.


PMID: 11052219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1629. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S34-40.

Dopamine receptors: from structure to behavior.

Sealfon SC(1), Olanow CW.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Fishberg Center for Neurobiology, Mount Sinai School of
Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA.

The responses obtained with drugs that act at dopamine receptors depend on the
spectrum of receptors stimulated, the pattern of stimulation and the neuronal
signal-transduction pathways that are activated. In the absence of drugs that
reliably discriminate between the various cloned receptors, elucidating the role 
of these receptors has largely relied on molecular genetic approaches that
include expression of genes for receptors in cell lines and manipulation of this 
expression in animal models. Connecting molecular events that occur consequent to
receptor stimulation with the resulting physiological effects entails bridging a 
complex network of interactions. This article reviews the current understanding
of the molecular, cellular and systemic consequences of activation of the
different dopamine receptors.


PMID: 11052218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1630. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S28-33.

Anatomy of the dopamine system in the basal ganglia.

Smith Y(1), Kieval JZ.

Author information: 
(1)Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center and Dept of Neurology, Emory
University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA.

The dopaminergic nigropallidal and nigrosubthalamic projections control the
activity of the globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus neurons in both normal
and pathological conditions. Intrastriatal dopaminergic neurons increase
substantially in animal models of Parkinson's disease. They contain GABA, display
the ultrastructural features of interneurons and form axo-axonic synapses with
putative cortical-like glutamatergic boutons. The local dendritic release of
dopamine by neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental
also influences basal ganglia functions. Thus, the long-term belief that the
effects of dopamine in the basal ganglia were solely mediated through the
nigrostriatal system must be changed to take into account extrastriatal
dopaminergic projections and intrastriatal dopaminergic neurons.


PMID: 11052217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1631. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S20-7.

Organization of the basal ganglia: the importance of axonal collateralization.

Parent A(1), Sato F, Wu Y, Gauthier J, Lévesque M, Parent M.

Author information: 
(1)Centre de recherche Université Laval Robert-Giffard, Beauport, Québec, Canada.

Recent neuroanatomical data obtained with single-axon or single-cell labeling
procedures in both rodents and primates have revealed the presence of various
types of projection neurons with profusely collateralized axons within each of
the major components of the basal ganglia. Such findings call for a reappraisal
of current concepts of the anatomical and functional organization of the basal
ganglia,which play such a crucial role in the control of motor behavior. The
basal ganglia now stand as a widely distributed neuronal network, whose elements 
are endowed with a highly patterned set of axon collaterals. The elucidation of
this finely tuned network is needed to understand the complex spatiotemporal
sequence of neural events that ensures the flow of cortical information through
the basal ganglia.


PMID: 11052216  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1632. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S8-19.

Pathophysiology of the basal ganglia in Parkinson's disease.

Obeso JA(1), Rodríguez-Oroz MC, Rodríguez M, Lanciego JL, Artieda J, Gonzalo N,
Olanow CW.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Neuroscience Centre, Clinica Universitaria and Medical
School, University of Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.

Insight into the organization of the basal ganglia in the normal, parkinsonian
and L-dopa-induced dyskinesia states is critical for the development of newer and
more effective therapies for Parkinson's disease. We believe that the basal
ganglia can no longer be thought of as a unidirectional linear system that
transfers information based solely on a firing-rate code. Rather, we propose that
the basal ganglia is a highly organized network, with operational characteristics
that simulate a non-linear dynamic system.


PMID: 11052215  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1633. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10 Suppl):S2-7.

Levodopa motor complications in Parkinson's disease.

Obeso JA(1), Olanow CW, Nutt JG.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology and Neurosurgery, Neuroscience Center, Clínica Universitaria
and Medical School, Pamplona, Spain.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder with an
average onset age of 60 years. In the United States, approximately one million
persons suffer from PD, and there are 60,000 newly diagnosed cases every year.
The estimated cost of PD to society is $27 billion per year. Based on United
States Census Bureau projections, it is estimated that the frequency of PD will
increase fourfold by the year 2040, making it an even larger burden on patients, 
their families and society.


PMID: 11052214  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1634. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):497-503.

Context, state and the receptive fields of striatal cortex cells.

Wörgötter F(1), Eysel UT.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, Center for Cognitive and Computational Neuroscience
(CCCN), University of Stirling, FK9 4LA, Stirling, UK.

Visual cortical cells are commonly characterized by their receptive-field
structure. Originally, a visual receptive field was defined in a purely spatial
way as that retinal area from which a change in spiking response of the regarded 
cell could be elicited by visual stimulation. The first attempts to understand
receptive-field structure were based entirely on the anatomical connectivity of
the primary visual pathway. More recently, however, it has been discovered that
the spatial and temporal context in which a stimulus is presented to a cell can
strongly influence its receptive field, and this in turn is dependent on the
state of arousal and attention. Accordingly, new concepts recognize that cortical
receptive fields are highly dynamic entities embracing more than the sum of the
full spatial and temporal response properties of a cell.


PMID: 11006467  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1635. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):491-7.

New perspectives on enigmatic vanilloid receptors.

Szallasi A(1), Di Marzo V.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pathology, Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO
63110, USA.

In spite of the rapid advances in our understanding of vanilloid-receptor
pharmacology in the PNS, the function of vanilloid receptors in the brain has
remained elusive. Recently, the endocannabinoid anandamide has been proposed to
function as an endogenous agonist at the vanilloid receptor VR1. This is an
exciting hypothesis because the localization of VR1 overlaps with that of
anandamide and its preferred cannabinoid receptor CB(1) in various brain areas.
The interaction of anandamide and/or related lipid metabolites with these two
completely separate receptor systems in the brain clearly places VR1 in a much
broader role than pain perception. At a practical level, the overlapping ligand
recognition properties of VR1 and CB(1) might be exploited by medicinal
chemistry. For example, arvanil, a 'chimeric' ligand that combines structural
features of capsaicin and anandamide, promises to be an interesting lead for new 
drugs that interact at both vanilloid and cannabinoid receptors.


PMID: 11006466  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1636. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):483-90.

Live or let die - retinal ganglion cell death and survival during development and
in the lesioned adult CNS.

Bähr M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurologische Universitätsklinik, Hoppe-Seyler Str. 3, D-72076, Tübingen,
Germany.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):8.

Programmed cell death or apoptosis is a common and widespread phenomenon that is 
important for proper development of the nervous system. In the adult CNS,
however, apoptosis contributes to secondary cell loss after various types of
lesions. The retino-tectal system has been successfully used as a convenient
model system to study the molecular mechanisms of neuronal apoptosis and survival
during development and in the lesioned adult CNS. This review describes the
current knowledge about the interactions of cell death and survival pathways in
general and for retinal ganglion cells specifically.


PMID: 11006465  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1637. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):475-83.

Common regions of the human frontal lobe recruited by diverse cognitive demands.

Duncan J(1), Owen AM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, CB2 2EF, Cambridge, UK.

Though many neuroscientific methods have been brought to bear in the search for
functional specializations within prefrontal cortex, little consensus has
emerged. To assess the contribution of functional neuroimaging, this article
reviews patterns of frontal-lobe activation associated with a broad range of
different cognitive demands, including aspects of perception, response selection,
executive control, working memory, episodic memory and problem solving. The
results show a striking regularity: for many demands, there is a similar
recruitment of mid-dorsolateral, mid-ventrolateral and dorsal anterior cingulate 
cortex. Much of the remainder of frontal cortex, including most of the medial and
orbital surfaces, is largely insensitive to these demands. Undoubtedly, these
results provide strong evidence for regional specialization of function within
prefrontal cortex. This specialization, however, takes an unexpected form: a
specific frontal-lobe network that is consistently recruited for solution of
diverse cognitive problems.


PMID: 11006464  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1638. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):469-75.

G-protein-independent signaling by G-protein-coupled receptors.

Heuss C(1), Gerber U.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057,
Zurich, Switzerland.

Two classes of receptors transduce neurotransmitter signals: ionotropic receptors
and heptahelical metabotropic receptors. Whereas the ionotropic receptors are
structurally associated with a membrane channel, a mediating mechanism is
necessary to functionally link metabotropic receptors with their respective
effectors. According to the accepted paradigm, the first step in the metabotropic
transduction process requires the activation of heterotrimeric G-proteins. An
increasing number of observations, however, point to a novel mechanism through
which neurotransmitters can initiate biochemical signals and modulate neuronal
excitability. According to this mechanism metabotropic receptors induce responses
by activating transduction systems that do not involve G-proteins.


PMID: 11006463  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1639. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):459-65.

Control of dorsal raphé 5-HT function by multiple 5-HT(1) autoreceptors: parallel
purposes or pointless plurality?

Stamford JA(1), Davidson C, McLaughlin DP, Hopwood SE.

Author information: 
(1)Neurotransmission Laboratory, Academic Dept of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care,
The Royal London and St Bartholomew's School of Medicine and Dentistry, Alexandra
Wing, Royal London Hospital, Whitechapel, E1 1BB, London, UK.

The serotonergic cells of the dorsal raphé nucleus innervate much of the
forebrain and are thought to be involved in the mechanism of action of
antidepressants. Dysfunction of these cells might be involved in the neural
mechanisms underlying depression and suicide. The traffic in pathways emanating
from the dorsal raphé nucleus is controlled by 5-HT(1) autoreceptors. Until
recently it was thought that the autoreceptors in the dorsal raphé nucleus were
solely of the 5-HT(1A) subtype. In this article, we discuss evidence that the
situation is more complex and that multiple 5-HT(1) subtypes govern different
aspects of 5-HT function in the dorsal raphé nucleus presenting new therapeutic
opportunities.


PMID: 11006462  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1640. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):454-8.

Cell death in early neural development: beyond the neurotrophic theory.

de la Rosa EJ(1), de Pablo F.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Cell and Developmental Biology, Centro de Investigaciones Biológicas, 
CSIC, Velázquez 144, E-28006, Madrid, Spain.

The important effect of cell death on projecting neurons during development is
well established. However, this mainstream research might have diverted
recognition of the cell death that occurs at earlier stages of neural
development, affecting proliferating neural precursor cells and young
neuroblasts. In this article, we briefly present observations supporting the
occurrence of programmed cell death during early neural development in a
regulated fashion that to some extent parallels the death of projecting neurons
lacking neurotrophic support. These findings raise new questions, in particular
the magnitude and the role of this early neural cell death.


PMID: 11006461  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1641. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):451-4.

Behavioral neuroscience: challenges for the era of molecular biology.

Lederhendler I(1), Schulkin J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience and Basic Behavioral Science, NIMH, NIH, Bethesda,
MD, USA.

This is a great age to participate in biological inquiry. Behavioral neuroscience
offers a rich perspective for molecular biologists. However, behavioral analysis 
is not simply an assay. Whereas molecular biology has become a unique tool in the
armamentarium of behavioral neuroscience, the powerful methodology of molecular
biology is no substitute for careful behavioral exploration.


PMID: 11006460  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1642. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):450.

Adult versus embryonic stem cells: which is the way forward?

Svendsen C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cambridge Centre for Brain Repair, Forvie Site, Robinson Way, CB2 2PY,
Cambridge, UK.


PMID: 11006459  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1643. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):450.

Genotype x environment interaction: an old problem in a new field.

Gerlai RT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Dept, Lilly Research Laboratories, 46285, Indianapolis, 
IN, USA.


PMID: 11006458  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1644. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):449.

Does the head rule the heart?

Deuchars J(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biomedical Sciences, Worsley Building, University of Leeds, LS2 9NQ,
Leeds, UK.


PMID: 11006457  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1645. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):449.

Prefabrication provides synapses on demand.

Haas K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, 1 Bungtown Road, Beckman Building, Cold Spring 
Harbor NY 11724, USA.


PMID: 11006456  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1646. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):383-4.

Finding motivation at Seabrook Island: the ventral striatum, learning and
plasticity.

Parkinson J(1), Fudge J, Hurd Y, Pennartz C, Peoples L.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, UK.


PMID: 11041804  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1647. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):436-42.

Endogenous morphine.

Stefano GB(1), Goumon Y, Casares F, Cadet P, Fricchione GL, Rialas C, Peter D,
Sonetti D, Guarna M, Welters ID, Bianchi E.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Institute, State University of New York at Old Westbury,
NY 11568, USA.

It is now well accepted that endogenous morphine is present in animals, both in
invertebrates and vertebrates. It is a key signaling molecule that plays an
important role in downregulating physiological responses, such as those in the
immune system, including immune elements in the CNS. It has been demonstrated
that a specific mu-opiate-receptor subtype, mu3, mediates these downregulatory
effects through release of NO. This article examines morphine as an endogenous
signaling molecule, in terms of its role in neural and immune regulation.


PMID: 10941194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1648. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):429-35.

Clustering of inhibitory neurotransmitter receptors at developing postsynaptic
sites: the membrane activation model.

Kneussel M(1), Betz H.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurochemistry, Max-Planck-Institute for Brain Research, D-60528
Frankfurt/Main, Germany.

Recent studies indicate an important role of cytoskeleton-associated and
lipid-anchored proteins in the formation of inhibitory postsynaptic membrane
specializations. Membrane apposition of the tubulin-binding protein gephyrin is
essential for the recruitment of inhibitory glycine receptors and GABAA receptors
to developing postsynaptic sites. Newly disclosed interactions between gephyrin, 
exchange factors for G proteins of the Rho and Rac families, the translational
regulator RAFT1, and actin-binding proteins like profilin might integrate
activity-dependent and trophic-factor-mediated signals at developing postsynaptic
sites. A model of inhibitory neurotransmitter receptor clustering, is proposed,
in which this process is initiated by receptor-driven activation of
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase.


PMID: 10941193  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1649. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):424-8.

Coupling of the IP3 receptor/Ca2+ channel with Ca2+ storage proteins
chromogranins A and B in secretory granules.

Yoo SH(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Creative Research Initiative Center for Secretory Granule Research,
Biomedical Research Center, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology,
Yu Sung Gu, Dae Jeon, 305-701, Korea.

The secretory granules of neuroendocrine cells, which function as an inositol
(1,4,5)-trisphosphate-sensitive intracellular Ca2+ store, contain both the
inositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate receptor/Ca2+ channel and the high-capacity
low-affinity Ca2+ storage proteins, chromogranins A and B. Chromogranins A and B,
which exist in approximately 2 mm range in the secretory granules, can bind
50-100 mol of Ca2+/mol with dissociation constants of 2-4 mm. These proteins
interact directly with the inositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate receptor/ Ca2+ channel 
at the intragranular pH 5.5, not only changing the conformation of the inositol
(1,4,5)-trisphosphate receptor/Ca2+ channel but also modulating the channel
activity. Given the homo- and heterotetrameric existence of both the inositol
(1,4,5)-trisphosphate receptor/Ca2+ channel and chromogranins A and B, these
tetrameric proteins appear to interact, thus controlling the intracellular Ca2+
concentration.


PMID: 10941192  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1650. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):412-7.

Negative symptoms: the 'pathology' of motivation and goal-directed behaviour.

Brown RG(1), Pluck G.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, De
Crespigny Park, London, UK SE5 9DF.

In many neurological and psychiatric disorders, including Alzheimer's disease and
schizophrenia, symptoms are present that appear to reflect an essential absence
of normal movement, cognition and emotional states. These negative symptoms might
reflect fundamental impairments in basic brain mechanisms that underlie
goal-directed behaviour. Knowledge of the pathology and pathophysiology of these 
diseases, combined with evidence from basic science, offers opportunities for
understanding the neurobiological basis of goal-directed behaviour, particularly 
the interaction between limbic structures and striato-thalamo-cortical circuits. 
The study of patients with negative symptoms also provides opportunities for
testing cognitive models of goal-directed behaviour, and eventually to map such
models onto the neurobiology of both normal and abnormal behaviour.


PMID: 10941190  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1651. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):410-1.

Confusion between neuronal apoptosis and activation of programmed cell death
mechanisms in acute necrotic insults.

Fujikawa DG.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):419-22.


PMID: 10941188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1652. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):407-9.

Cell death, DNA breaks and possible rearrangements: an alternative view.

Chun J.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):100-5.
    Trends Neurosci. 1995 Sep;18(9):379-83.


PMID: 10941186  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1653. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):399-407.

Serine proteases and brain damage - is there a link?

Gingrich MB(1), Traynelis SF.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Reproduction, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA
22908-0391, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):8-9.

The protective blood-brain barrier normally allows diffusion of small molecules
such as oxygen and carbon dioxide, and transport of essential nutrients, but
excludes large proteins and other blood constituents from the interstitial space 
of the CNS. However, head trauma, stroke, status epilepticus and other
pathological conditions can all compromise the integrity of this barrier, and
allow blood proteins as large as albumin to gain access to the extracellular
spaces that surround neurons and glia. Given their possible entry into brain
tissue during cerebrovascular insult, the effects of blood-derived proteases such
as thrombin, tissue plasminogen activator and plasmin in the CNS have come under 
increasing scrutiny. Evidence now supports a role for serine proteases in the
sequence of events that can lead to glial scarring, edema, seizure and neuronal
death.


PMID: 10941185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1654. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):393-8.

KCNQ2/KCNQ3 K+ channels and the molecular pathogenesis of epilepsy: implications 
for therapy.

Rogawski MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Epilepsy Research Branch, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-1408, USA.

In 1998, the discovery of two novel genes KCNQ2 and KCNQ3, mutated in a rare
inherited form of epilepsy known as benign familial neonatal convulsions, for the
first time enabled insight into the molecular etiology of a human idiopathic
generalized epilepsy syndrome. These disease genes encode subunits of neuronal
M-type K+ channels, key regulators of brain excitability. Analogies between
benign familial neonatal convulsions and other channelopathies of skeletal and
cardiac muscle, including periodic paralysis, myotonia and the long QT syndrome, 
provide clues about the nature of epilepsy-susceptibility genes and about the
fundamental basis of epilepsy as an episodic disorder. It now appears that the
KCNQ2/KCNQ3 K+ channels that are mutated in benign familial neonatal convulsions 
represent an important new target for anti-epileptic drugs. In the future, the
identification of ion channel defects as predisposing factors in the common
epilepsies could herald a new era of genotype-specific therapies.


PMID: 10941184  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1655. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):387-92.

Transcriptional dysregulation in Huntington's disease.

Cha JH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept. of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Although the gene responsible for Huntington's disease was discovered in 1993,
the pathogenic mechanisms by which mutant huntingtin causes neuronal dysfunction 
and death remain unclear. However, increasing evidence suggests that mutant
huntingtin disrupts the normal transcriptional program of susceptible neurons.
Thus, transcriptional dysregulation might be an important pathogenic mechanism in
Huntington's disease.


PMID: 10941183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1656. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):386.

New imaging techniques for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.

Gurwitz D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nat. Lab. Genetics of Israeli Populations, Tel-Aviv University, Sackler
Faculty of Medicine, PO Box 39040, Tel-Aviv 69978, Israel.


PMID: 10941182  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1657. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):386.

Making sense of making hair cells.

Fekete DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.


PMID: 10941181  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1658. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):385.

Hunting the arbiters of neurodegeneration.

Allsopp TE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fujisawa Institute of Neuroscience in Edinburgh, The University of Edinburgh, 
Edinburgh, UK EH8 9JZ.


PMID: 10941180  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1659. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):385.

Za Zdorovie! 'To your health!' in Russian.

Spier AD.


PMID: 10941179  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1660. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):417-24.

Linking DNA damage and neurodegeneration.

Rolig RL(1), McKinnon PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Genetics, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN 38105,
USA.

Many human pathological conditions with genetic defects in DNA damage responses
are also characterized by neurological deficits. These neurological deficits can 
manifest themselves during many stages of development, suggesting an important
role for DNA repair or processing during the development and maintenance of the
nervous system. Although the molecular neuropathology associated with such
deficits is largely unknown, many of the responsible gene defects have been
identified. The current rapid progress in elucidation of molecular details
following gene identification should provide further insight into the importance 
of DNA processing in nervous system function.


PMID: 10941191  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1661. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):411.

Reply

Roy M(1), Sapolsky RM.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biological Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.


PMID: 10941189  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1662. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):408-9.

Reply

Gilmore EC(1), Herrup K, Nowakowski RS, Caviness VS Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, OH 44106, USA.


PMID: 10941187  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1663. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):372-6.

On the origin of skilled forelimb movements.

Iwaniuk AN(1), Whishaw IQ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of Lethbridge, Lethbridge,
Alberta, Canada T1K 3M4.

Homologizing behaviour was once considered unreliable, but the application of
modern comparative methods has been shown to provide strong evidence of
behavioural homologies. Skilled forelimb movements were thought to originate in
the primate lineage but in fact are common among tetrapod taxa and probably share
a common origin in early tetrapods. Furthermore, skilled movements are likely to 
have been derived from, and elaborated through, food-handling behaviour. In
addition, it is now thought that the role played by the lateral and medial
descending pathways of the spinal cord in the execution of skilled forelimb
movements could be synergistic, rather than the exclusive responsibility of an
individual pathway.


PMID: 10906801  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1664. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):365-71.

Ca2+-Zn2+ permeable AMPA or kainate receptors: possible key factors in selective 
neurodegeneration.

Weiss JH(1), Sensi SL.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, University of California, Irvine, CA 92697-4292, USA.

Neurological diseases, including global ischemia, Alzheimer's disease and
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, are characterized by selective patterns of
neurodegeneration. Most studies of potential glutamate-receptor-mediated
contributions to disease have focused on the highly Ca2+-permeable and widely
distributed NMDA-receptor channel. However, an alternative hypothesis is that the
presence of AMPA- or kainate-receptor channels that are directly permeable to
Ca2+ ions (Ca-A/K-receptor channels) is of greater significance to the neuronal
loss seen in these conditions. Besides a restricted distribution and high Ca2+
permeability, two other factors make Ca-A/K receptors appealing candidate
contributors to selective injury: their high permeability to Zn2+ ions and the
possibility that their numbers increase in disease-associated conditions. Further
characterization of the functions of these channels should result in new
approaches to treatment of these conditions.


PMID: 10906800  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1665. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):359-65.

The hypocretin/orexin ligand-receptor system: implications for sleep and sleep
disorders.

Kilduff TS(1), Peyron C.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Laboratory, SRI International, Menlo Park, CA 94025,
USA.

The molecules originally described as the hypocretins and subsequently as the
orexins were initially implicated in the control of food intake. Recent
observations implicate this newly-described neurotransmitter system in the sleep 
disorder narcolepsy and, potentially, in the regulation of normal sleep
processes. This article reviews the research that led to the isolation of the
hypocretin/orexin peptides, their receptors and the activity of these molecules
as we currently understand them. A model is proposed in which the cells that make
these peptides might be involved in arousal state control.


PMID: 10906799  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1666. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):352-9.

Neuronal migration disorders: from genetic diseases to developmental mechanisms.

Gleeson JG(1), Walsh CA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Pediatric Neurology, Dept of Neurosciences, University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-09624, USA.

Neurons that constitute the cerebral cortex must migrate hundreds of cell-body
distances from their place of birth, and through several anatomical boundaries,
to reach their final position within the correct cortical layer. Human
neurological conditions associated with abnormal neuronal migration, together
with spontaneous and engineered mouse mutants, define at least four distinct
steps in cortical neuronal migration. Many of the genes that control neuronal
migration have strong genetic or biochemical links to the cytoskeleton,
suggesting that the field of neuronal migration might be closing in on the
underlying cytoskeletal events.


PMID: 10906798  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1667. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):347-52.

Emx homeogenes and mouse brain development.

Cecchi C(1), Boncinelli E.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Developmental Biology Unit, DIBIT, Istituto Scientifico H San
Raffaele, 20132 Milan, Italy.

Mammalian homeogenes of the Emx family, Emx1 and Emx2, are expressed in the
developing cerebral cortex and are involved in the patterning of the rostral
brain. Although very little is known about the role of Emx1, details of the
function of EMX2 are emerging from the observation of cortical phenotypes in
normal and mutant mice. Emx2 is expressed in proliferating neuroblasts and in the
so-called postmitotic Cajal-Retzius cells, known to control migration of cortical
neurons. The graded distribution of EMX2 homeoprotein suggests a potential role
for Emx2 in the subdivision of the cortex into territories and possibly areas.


PMID: 10906797  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1668. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):345-6.

Does the basolateral amygdala store memories for emotional events?

Vazdarjanova A.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):561-7.


PMID: 10906795  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1669. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):337-44.

Xenotransplantation for CNS repair: immunological barriers and strategies to
overcome them.

Brevig T(1), Holgersson J, Widner H.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Southern Denmark, Denmark.

Neural transplantation holds promise for focal CNS repair. Owing to the shortage 
of human donor material, which is derived from aborted embryos, and ethical
concerns over its use, animal donor tissue is now considered an appropriate
alternative. In the USA, individuals suffering from Parkinson's disease,
Huntington's disease, focal epilepsy or stroke have already received neural
grafts from pig embryos. However, in animal models, neural tissue transplanted
between species is usually promptly rejected, even when implanted in the brain.
Some of the immunological mechanisms that underlie neural xenograft rejection
have recently been elucidated, but others remain to be determined and controlled 
before individuals with neurological disorders can benefit from
xenotransplantation.


PMID: 10906793  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1670. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):334-6.

Social barriers to a theoretical neuroscience.

McCollum G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurological Sciences Institute, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland, 
OR 97209, USA.

Social rather than scientific barriers are impeding neuroscience theory. There
are plenty of experimental data and mathematical methods to develop a rigorous,
mathematical theory in neuroscience. However, structural mathematical efforts are
being suffocated by the requirement to produce numbers immediately. Also
theoretical development is tied too closely to one experimental group. The social
barriers can be addressed by: (1) judging theory by structural accuracy rather
than numerical output; (2) recognizing mathematical theory (not just
computational modeling) as a method for producing insight into neurobiological
phenomena; (3) funding fundamental theoretical neuroscience and (4) recognizing
theoretical neuroscientists as neuroscientists.


PMID: 10906792  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1671. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):333.

Nerves - the silent but strong type.

Deuchars J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, Worsley Medical and Dental Building, University of Leeds, 
Leeds, UK LS2 9NQ.


PMID: 10906791  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1672. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):333.

Turning off the anxiety master switch.

Mattson MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging Gerontology Research 
Center, 5600 Nathan Shock Drive, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.


PMID: 10906790  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1673. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):332.

Down to less than 300 genes: the DNA sequence of human chromosome 21 and Down's
syndrome.

Gerlai RT(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Dept, Lilly Research Laboratories, Indianapolis, IN
46285, USA.


PMID: 10906789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1674. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):332.

Ear rings: FGF3 involvement comes full circle.

Fekete DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.


PMID: 10906788  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1675. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):345-6.

Reply to vazdarjanova

Maren S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1109, USA.


PMID: 10906796  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1676. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):331.

Developing trends

Swanson GJ.


PMID: 10906787  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1677. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jul;23(7):317-27.

Pathogenetic role of autoantibodies in neurological diseases.

Archelos JJ(1), Hartung HP.

Author information: 
(1)Multiple Sclerosis Research Group, Dept of Neurology,
Karl-Franzens-Universität, Graz, Austria.

Autoreactive B cells and antibodies can be detected in a variety of neurological 
diseases. Their causative role has been established in some disorders and they
are obviously involved in the pathogenesis of others. Some mechanisms engendering
B-cell autoimmunity in animal models have been shown to operate in humans.
Factors that determine B-cell immune-response patterns and the effector pathways 
have been identified. B-cell responses to CNS-restricted autoantigens are
governed by distinctive immune reactions. Evidence has accumulated that the CNS
is a permissive and, under inflammatory conditions, even a B-cell-supporting
micro-environment. Data from human and animal experiments have enhanced our
understanding of B-cell physiology in health and neurological disease, which has 
relevant diagnostic and therapeutic implications.


PMID: 10856942  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1678. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jul;23(7):313-6.

Neurogenic placodes: a common front.

Graham A(1), Begbie J.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Group, Guys Campus, Kings College London, UK.

Neurogenic placodes are specialized regions of the embryonic ectoderm that are
central to the development of the cranial sensory systems of vertebrates. These
structures generate many of the sensory neurones of the head and also, in some
instances, the associated sensory receptor cells. The neurogenic placodes have
often been thought to share common pathways of development and to have evolved
together. However, recent work has shown that this is not the case. The term
'neurogenic placodes' no longer seems to describe a cohesive group. Rather, the
neurogenic placodes fall into a number of categories, and it is within each of
these that the members share a common development and evolution.


PMID: 10856941  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1679. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jul;23(7):305-12.

Facilitation, augmentation and potentiation at central synapses.

Thomson AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, Royal Free and University College Medical School, London, 
UK.

Release probability (P) appears to be a major factor that influences the pattern 
of transmitter release. At cortical pyramidal axon inputs onto different classes 
of target cells, very different release patterns are observed, patterns that
correlate with release probability. Simplistically, 'low P' synapses display
facilitation and augmentation, whereas 'high P' synapses supplied by the same
axon exhibit paired-pulse and frequency-dependent depression. Different
combinations of factors probably contribute to release probability at different
terminals, during development and under different experimental conditions. The
recent advances made by molecular biological studies of the release machinery do,
however, provide candidate proteins and protein-protein interactions whose
differential distributions might be important factors in determining the patterns
of transmitter release.


PMID: 10856940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1680. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jul;23(7):298-304.

Energetics in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases.

Beal MF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology and Neuroscience, Weill Medical College of Cornell
University and the New York Hospital, Weill Cornell Medical Center, New York, NY 
10021, USA.

Mitochondria have been linked to both necrotic and apoptotic cell death, which
are thought to have a major role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative
diseases. Recent evidence shows that nuclear gene defects affecting mitochondrial
function have a role in the pathogenesis of Friedreich's ataxia, Wilson's disease
and hereditary spastic paraplegia. There is also accumulating evidence that
mitochondrial dysfunction might have a role in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic
lateral sclerosis, Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's
disease. If this is so, a number of therapeutic targets are implicated that might
result in novel treatments for neurodegenerative diseases.


PMID: 10856939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1681. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jul;23(7):291-7.

Mechanisms of programmed cell death in the developing brain.

Kuan CY(1), Roth KA, Flavell RA, Rakic P.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06510, USA.

Programmed cell death (apoptosis) is an important mechanism that determines the
size and shape of the vertebrate nervous system. Recent gene-targeting studies
have indicated that homologs of the cell-death pathway in the nematode
Caenorhabditis elegans have analogous functions in apoptosis in the developing
mammalian brain. However, epistatic genetic analysis has revealed that the
apoptosis of progenitor cells during early embryonic development and apoptosis of
postmitotic neurons at later stage of brain development have distinct roles and
mechanisms. These results provide new insight on the significance and mechanism
of neural cell death in mammalian brain development.


PMID: 10856938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1682. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jul;23(7):280-3.

Four-year PhDs in neuroscience: an assessment after four years.

Rawlins N(1), Akerman CJ, Andolina I, Blakemore SJ, Mrsic-Flogel T, Attwell D.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Experimental Psychology, Oxford, UK.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2000 Aug;23(8):344.

In 1996, as an innovation for the UK, the Wellcome Trust set up two 'American
style' four-year PhD programmes in neuroscience, with an initial year of broad
training followed by a three-year PhD. Here, some of the first cohort of
students, who are soon to graduate and the coordinators of the programmes, give
their views on this experiment in neuroscience research training.


PMID: 10856936  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1683. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jul;23(7):284-90.

Altruistic cell suicide and the specialized case of the virus-infected nervous
system.

Allsopp TE(1), Fazakerley JK.

Author information: 
(1)Fujisawa Institute of Neuroscience in Edinburgh, Dept of Neuroscience,
University of Edinburgh, UK.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Dec;23(12):611-2.
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):467-8.

Depending on their differentiation state, vertebrate neurones can commit suicide 
after neurotropic virus infection. Such suicide might be an evolved strategy in
multicellular organisms for limiting virus expansion. Regulation of suicide in
this context operates by a programme similar to that activated during
embryogenesis or in response to nervous-system injury and disease. In contrast to
immature neurones that can readily initiate apoptosis following infection, mature
neurones are generally highly resistant and can survive for long periods if they 
remain functional. Mature, infected neurones might gain competence to die owing
to the attuned activation of pathways that sensitize the cell to subsequent
stress. The consequence of either perturbation of function as a result of viral
persistence or a chronic but progressive loss of infected neurones might be a
failure of key neural functions.


PMID: 10856937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1684. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jul;23(7):279.

Neuroscion - a meeting of minds

Syed S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscion, 84 Theobald's Road, London UK WC1X 8RR.


PMID: 10856935  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1685. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):233-4.

Active forces in hearing.

Hackney CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)MacKay Institute of Communication and Neuroscience, School of Life Sciences,
Keele University, Keele, Staffordshire, UK.


PMID: 10917861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1686. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):271-6.

Arbitrary associations between antecedents and actions.

Wise SP(1), Murray EA.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Systems Neuroscience, National Institute of Mental Health,
Bethesda, MD 20892 USA.

The arbitrary linkage of sensory cues to actions and goals represents one of the 
most-flexible capabilities in the behavioral repertoire of mammals. This ability 
has been termed 'conditional motor learning', 'conditional discrimination' or,
more recently, 'arbitrary visuomotor mapping'. Unlike other forms of visuomotor
guidance, in arbitrary mapping the location of the sensory cue lacks any
systematic spatial relationship with the action or its goal. Recent work has
identified much of the neural network that underlies this behavior. It consists
of parts of the frontal cortex, hippocampal system and basal ganglia, each of
which has neurons whose activity undergoes systematic evolution during learning.


PMID: 10838597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1687. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):265-71.

Recovery recapitulates ontogeny.

Cramer SC(1), Chopp M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

Several studies support the hypothesis that after stroke, specific features of
brain function revert to those seen at an early stage of development, with the
subsequent process of recovery recapitulating ontogeny in many ways. Many
clinical characteristics of stroke recovery resemble normal development,
particularly in the motor system. Consistent with this, brain-mapping studies
after an ischemic insult suggest re-emergence of childhood organizational
patterns: recovery being associated with a return to adult patterns. Experimental
animal studies demonstrate increased levels of developmental proteins,
particularly in the area surrounding an infarct, suggesting an active process of 
reconditioning in response to cerebral ischemia. Understanding the patterns of
similarity between normal development and stroke recovery might be of value in
its treatment.


PMID: 10838596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1688. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):259-64.

Cytosolic phospholipase A2 and the distinct transcriptional programs of
astrocytoma cells.

Hernández M(1), Nieto ML, Sánchez Crespo M.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biolog a y Genética Molecular, CSIC-Universidad de Valladolid,
47005 Valladolid, Spain.

Astrocytes constitute the most abundant cell type in the nervous system. Under
physiological conditions, they respond to the stimuli to which neurons are also
responsive. The use of astrocytoma cell lines with well-defined morphological and
functional markers has been helpful for addressing the mechanisms of signal
transduction that operate in the nervous system. On the basis of the effects
produced by agonists of different types of receptor (muscarinic ACh receptors,
thrombin receptors, phospholipases A2 receptors and tumor necrosis factor alpha
receptors), several different transcriptional programs that involve the MAP
kinase-cytosolic phospholipase A2 system and the transcription factor NF-kappaB
have been described.


PMID: 10838595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1689. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):251-8.

Seasonal plasticity in the adult brain.

Tramontin AD(1), Brenowitz EA.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Zoology, The Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10021, USA.

Seasonal plasticity of structure and function is a fundamental feature of nervous
systems in a wide variety of animals that occupy seasonal environments. Excellent
examples of seasonal brain changes are found in the avian song control system,
which has become a leading model of morphological and functional plasticity in
the adult CNS. The volumes of entire brain regions that control song increase
dramatically in anticipation of the breeding season. These volumetric changes are
induced primarily by vernal increases in circulating sex steroids and are
accompanied by increases in neuronal size, number and spacing. In several
species, these structural changes in the song control circuitry are associated
with seasonal changes in song production and learning. Songbirds provide
important insights into the mechanisms and behavioral consequences of plasticity 
in the adult brain.


PMID: 10838594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1690. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):247-51.

Low-level memory processes in vision.

Magnussen S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, University of Oslo, Norway.

Psychophysical studies of the short-term memory for attributes or dimensions of
the visual stimulus that are known to be important in early visual processing
(spatial frequency, orientation, contrast, motion and color) identify a low-level
perceptual memory mechanism. This proposed mechanism is located early in the
visual processing stream, prior to the structural description system responsible 
for shape priming but beyond primary visual cortex (V1); it is composed of a
series of parallel, special-purpose perceptual mechanisms with independent but
limited processing resources. Each mechanism is devoted to the analysis of a
single dimension and is coupled to a memory store.


PMID: 10838593  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1691. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):245-6.

Clinical trials with neuroprotective drugs in acute ischaemic stroke: are we
doing the right thing?

Emerich DF.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):535-40.


PMID: 10838591  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1692. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):239-45.

Neuronal cell death in Huntington's disease: a potential role for dopamine.

Jakel RJ(1), Maragos WF.

Author information: 
(1)MSTP Program, University of Wisconsin Medical Center, Madison, WI 53706, USA.

Huntington's disease is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder, the cause of
which is unknown. Excitotoxicity, mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress 
are all likely to contribute to the striatal cell death that occurs in this
disorder. There are accumulating data indicating that under specific
circumstances, dopamine, which occurs in high concentrations in the basal
ganglia, might be neurotoxic. In this article, the current models used to study
Huntington's disease are reviewed and the recent findings that implicate dopamine
in the pathophysiology of this progressive disorder are discussed. Although many 
questions remain unanswered, the dopaminergic system could contribute to striatal
vulnerability in Huntington's disease and provide a novel avenue for the
development of new therapies.


PMID: 10838590  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1693. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):236-9.

Protein targeting: altering receptor kinase function in the brain.

Gerlai R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Department, Lilly Research Laboratories, Indianapolis,
IN 46285, USA.

Gene targeting has proved to be one of the most powerful techniques with which
one can investigate molecular mechanisms that underlie complex phenomena such as 
learning and memory. Despite its popularity, however, concerns have been raised
about this technique and alternative approaches have been sought. One such
approach is protein targeting, which is based on the application of
immunoadhesins, genetically engineered fusion proteins that exhibit functionally 
relevant target specificity. These immunoadhesins modulate the activity of not
only a single receptor but of all receptors with homologous binding sites, which 
thereby eliminates the possibility of compensation by sister receptors.
Furthermore, immunoadhesins can be used not only to impair but also to improve
receptor function in the brain. Initial studies using immunoadhesins suggest that
protein targeting might be a useful approach for analyzing the molecular
mechanisms of brain function and behavior.


PMID: 10838589  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1694. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):234-5.

Potassium-channel closure taken to TASK.

North RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Physiology, University of Sheffield, UK.


PMID: 10838588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1695. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):246.

Reply

De Keyser J(1), Sulter G, Luiten PG.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Academisch Ziekenhuis Groningen, 9700 RB Groningen, The
Netherlands.


PMID: 10838592  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1696. Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):222-9.

Calcium signaling in the ER: its role in neuronal plasticity and
neurodegenerative disorders.

Mattson MP(1), LaFerla FM, Chan SL, Leissring MA, Shepel PN, Geiger JD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurosciences, National Institute on Aging, Baltimore, MD 21224,
USA.

Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a multifaceted organelle that regulates protein
synthesis and trafficking, cellular responses to stress, and intracellular Ca2+
levels. In neurons, it is distributed between the cellular compartments that
regulate plasticity and survival, which include axons, dendrites, growth cones
and synaptic terminals. Intriguing communication networks between ER,
mitochondria and plasma membrane are being revealed that provide mechanisms for
the precise regulation of temporal and spatial aspects of Ca2+ signaling.
Alterations in Ca2+ homeostasis in ER contribute to neuronal apoptosis and
excitotoxicity, and are being linked to the pathogenesis of several different
neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease and stroke.


PMID: 10782128  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1697. Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):216-22.

Resonance, oscillation and the intrinsic frequency preferences of neurons.

Hutcheon B(1), Yarom Y.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biological Science, National Research Council of Canada, Ottawa,
Canada K1A 0R6.

The realization that different behavioural and perceptual states of the brain are
associated with different brain rhythms has sparked growing interest in the
oscillatory behaviours of neurons. Recent research has uncovered a close
association between electrical oscillations and resonance in neurons. Resonance
is an easily measurable property that describes the ability of neurons to respond
selectively to inputs at preferred frequencies. A variety of ionic mechanisms
support resonance and oscillation in neurons. Understanding the basic principles 
involved in the production of resonance allows for a simplified classification of
these mechanisms. The characterization of resonance and frequency preference
captures those essential properties of neurons that can serve as a substrate for 
coordinating network activity around a particular frequency in the brain.


PMID: 10782127  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1698. Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):209-16.

Ascorbate regulation and its neuroprotective role in the brain.

Rice ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Depts of Neurosurgery, and Physiology and Neuroscience, New York University
School of Medicine, NY 10016, USA.

Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) occurs physiologically as the ascorbate anion: a
water-soluble antioxidant that is found throughout the body. However, despite the
high, homeostatically regulated levels of brain ascorbate, its specific functions
in the CNS are only beginning to be elucidated. Certainly, it acts as part of the
intracellular antioxidant network, and as such is normally neuroprotective. There
is also evidence that it acts as a neuromodulator. A possibly unique role it
might have is as an antioxidant in the brain extracellular microenvironment,
where its concentration is modulated by glutamate-ascorbate heteroexchange at
glutamate uptake sites. Ongoing studies of ascorbate and glutamate transporters
should lead to rapid progress in understanding ascorbate regulation and function.


PMID: 10782126  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1699. Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):199-208.

Central control components of a 'simple' stretch reflex.

Clarac F(1), Cattaert D, Le Ray D.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie et Mouvements, UPR 9011 du Centre National de la 
Recherche Scientifique, Institut Fédératif de Recherche 'Sciences du Cerveau',
13402 Marseille Cedex 20, France.

The monosynaptic stretch reflex is a fundamental feature of sensory-motor
organization in most animal groups. In isolation, it serves largely as a negative
feedback devoted to postural controls; however, when it is involved in diverse
movements, it can be modified by central command circuits. In order to understand
the implications of such modifications, a model system has been chosen that has
been studied at many different levels: the crayfish walking system. Recent
studies have revealed several levels of control and modulation (for example, at
the levels of the sensory afferent and the output synapse from the sensory
afferent, and via changes in the membrane properties of the postsynaptic neuron) 
that operate complex and highly adaptive sensory-motor processing. During a given
motor task, such mechanisms reshape the sensory message completely, such that the
stretch reflex becomes a part of the central motor command.


PMID: 10782125  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1700. Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):198.

Dendritic spine density in Purkinje cells.

Strata P, Morando L, Bravin M, Rossi F.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):53-7.


PMID: 10782123  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1701. Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):195-7.

Human retrosplenial cortex: where is it and is it involved in emotion?

Vogt BA, Absher JR, Bush G.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):310-6.


PMID: 10782121  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1702. Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):190-5.

Long-term plasticity of postsynaptic GABAA-receptor function in the adult brain: 
insights from the oxytocin neurone.

Brussaard AB(1), Herbison AE.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurophysiology of the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, De Boelelaan
1087, 1081 HV, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The subunit switching of ligand-gated receptors is a potentially important
mechanism through which synaptic plasticity can be achieved in the nervous
system. Although established in an activity-dependent manner for
neurotransmission that is mediated by excitatory amino acids, there is much less 
direct evidence for a role of subunit switching in long-term plasticity of GABAA 
receptors in the adult. We argue that the hypothalamic oxytocin neurones, which
exhibit marked plasticity through each reproductive cycle, provide an excellent
model of both presynaptic and postsynaptic long-term plasticity of GABA-mediated 
transmission in the mature nervous system. The postsynaptic plasticity involves
GABAA-receptor-subunit switching in an activity-independent manner. It also has
profound effects on the electrical behaviour of the oxytocin neurones and, thus, 
the neural control of pregnancy and lactation.


PMID: 10782120  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1703. Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):183-90.

Gene transfer into neurones for the molecular analysis of behaviour: focus on
herpes simplex vectors.

Simonato M(1), Manservigi R, Marconi P, Glorioso J.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Clinical and Experimental Medicine (Section of Pharmacology) and
Biotechnology Center, University of Ferrara, 44100 Ferrara, Italy.

The use of viral vectors to transfect genes into specific brain-cell populations 
is a novel approach that can be used to investigate the molecular and cellular
basis of brain function. Ideal vectors should be targetable and capable of
regulated transgene expression. From the viral vectors developed so far, this
article focuses on herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1)-based vectors. HSV-1 vectors
can be engineered for gene transfer to the brain, which makes them suitable for
neuroscience research applications. In particular, genetic manipulations of the
virus can almost eliminate toxicity and allow expression of multiple transgenes
simultaneously. In some instances, transfection of selected neuronal populations 
is also possible. Specific alterations in behaviour and in disease models have
been described after the viral-vector-mediated expression of specific genes
within highly localized brain regions.


PMID: 10782119  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1704. Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):198.

Reply

Segal M(1), Korkotian E, Murphy DD.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, The Weizmann Institute, Rehovot 76100, Israel.


PMID: 10782124  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1705. Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):196-7.

Reply

Maddock R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychiatry and Center for Neuroscience, University of California
Davis, Davis, CA 95817, USA.


PMID: 10782122  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1706. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Apr;23(4):166-74.

Mitochondrial membrane potential and neuronal glutamate excitotoxicity: mortality
and millivolts.

Nicholls DG(1), Ward MW.

Author information: 
(1)Neurosciences Institute, Dept of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, University of 
Dundee, Dundee, UK DD1 9SY.

In the past few years it has become apparent that mitochondria have an essential 
role in the life and death of neuronal and non-neuronal cells. The central
mitochondrial bioenergetic parameter is the protonmotive force, Deltap. Much
research has focused on the monitoring of the major component of Deltap, the
mitochondrial membrane potential Deltapsim, in intact neurones exposed to
excitotoxic stimuli, in the hope of establishing the causal relationships between
cell death and mitochondrial dysfunction. Several fluorescent techniques have
been used, and this article discusses their merits and pitfalls.


PMID: 10717676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1707. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Apr;23(4):159-66.

From worm to man: three subfamilies of TRP channels.

Harteneck C(1), Plant TD, Schultz G.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmakologie, Universitätsklinikum Benjamin Franklin, Freie
Universität Berlin, D-14195 Berlin, Germany.

A steadily increasing number of cDNAs for proteins that are structurally related 
to the TRP ion channels have been cloned in recent years. All these proteins
display a topology of six transmembrane segments that is shared with some
voltage-gated channels and the cyclic-nucleotide-gated channels. The TRP channels
can be divided, on the basis of their homology, into three TRP channel (TRPC)
subfamilies: short (S), long (L) and osm (O). From the evidence available to
date, this subdivision can also be made according to channel function. Thus, the 
STRPC family, which includes Drosophila TRP and TRPL and the mammalian
homologues, TRPC1-7, is a family of Ca2+-permeable cation channels that are
activated subsequent to receptor-mediated stimulation of different isoforms of
phospholipase C. Members of the OTRPC family are Ca2+-permeable channels involved
in pain transduction (vanilloid and vanilloid-like receptors), epithelial Ca2+
transport and, at least in Caenorhabditis elegans, in chemo-, mechano- and
osmoregulation. The LTRPC family is less well characterized.


PMID: 10717675  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1708. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Apr;23(4):153-9.

The neurobiology of magnetoreception in vertebrate animals.

Lohmann KJ(1), Johnsen S.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA.

Diverse vertebrate animals can sense the earth's magnetic field, but little is
known about the physiological mechanisms that underlie this sensory ability.
Three major hypotheses of magnetic-field detection have been proposed.
Electrosensitive marine fish might sense the geomagnetic field through
electromagnetic induction, although definitive evidence that such fish actually
do so has not yet been obtained. Studies with other vertebrates have provided
evidence consistent with two different mechanisms: biogenic magnetite and
chemical reactions that are modulated by magnetic fields. Despite recent
progress, however, primary magnetoreceptors have not yet been identified
unambiguously in any animal.


PMID: 10717674  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1709. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Apr;23(4):152-3.

Functions of the pontine nuclei in cerebro-cerebellar communication.

Bjaalie JG, Leergaard TB.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):443-51.


PMID: 10717672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1710. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Apr;23(4):147-51.

The bicentennial of the Voltaic battery (1800-2000): the artificial electric
organ.

Piccolino M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia, Università di Ferrara, Italy.

Alessandro Volta invented the electric battery at the end of 1799 and
communicated his invention to the Royal Society of London in 1800. The studies
that led him to develop this revolutionary device began in 1792, after Volta read
the work of Luigi Galvani on the existence of an intrinsic electricity in living 
organisms. During these studies, Volta obtained a series of results of great
physiological relevance, which led him to anticipate some important ideas that
marked the inception of modern neuroscience. These results have been obscured by 
a cultural tradition that has seen Volta exclusively as a physicist, lacking
interest for biological problems and opposed in an irreversible way to the
physiologist, Luigi Galvani.


PMID: 10717671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1711. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Apr;23(4):141-6.

Actin and the agile spine: how and why do dendritic spines dance?

Halpain S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Cell Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA.

Since early anatomical descriptions, the existence of dendritic spines has
stimulated intense curiosity and speculation about their regulation and function.
Research over the past three decades has described an impressive mutability in
dendritic-spine number and morphology under a variety of physiological
circumstances. Current evidence favors a proposed model in which two pools of
actin filaments, one stable and the other dynamic, support both persistent spine 
structure and rapid spine motility. Potential functions of spine motility and
dynamic actin include regulated protein scaffolding, retrograde signaling and
synapse stabilization.


PMID: 10717670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1712. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Apr;23(4):175-80.

A new concept in neurodegeneration: TNFalpha is a silencer of survival signals.

Venters HD(1), Dantzer R, Kelley KW.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunophysiology, Dept of Animal Sciences, University of
Illinois, Urbana, IL 61801, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Oct;23(10):466-7.

The p55 receptor for the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha
(TNFalpha) is best characterized by its ability to induce signals that trigger
cell death. However, this is not the only way in which this TNF receptor kills
neurons. A new view of neurodegeneration has recently emerged in which a TNF
receptor induces death through the 'silencing of survival signals' (SOSS), such
as phosphatidylinositol 3' kinase (PI3 kinase), that are activated by the
insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor. This mechanism of intracellular crosstalk 
is the most pathophysiologically relevant action of TNFalpha in the brain and is 
applicable to a broad number of receptors that are localized on the same cell.
Treatment of the more-devastating and costly neurodegenerative diseases of our
time might be best promoted by increasing the efficacy of neuronal survival
factors using new approaches aimed at inhibiting the SOSS.


PMID: 10717677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1713. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Apr;23(4):152-3.

Reply

Schwarz C(1), Thier P.

Author information: 
(1)Sektion fur Visuelle Sensomotorik, Neurologische Universitatsklinik Tubingen, 
Hoppe-Seyler Strabetae 3, 72076 Tubingen, Germany.


PMID: 10717673  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1714. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):91-2.

European neuroscience meets the snow.

Keynes R, Kirik D, Nieto-Sampedro M.


PMID: 10722395  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1715. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):131-7.

Channel noise in neurons.

White JA(1), Rubinstein JT, Kay AR.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biomedical Engineering and Center for BioDynamics, Boston University, 
Boston, MA 02215, USA.

The probabilistic gating of voltage-dependent ion channels is a source of
electrical 'channel noise' in neurons. This noise has long been implicated in
limiting the reliability (repeatability) of neuronal responses to repeated
presentations of identical stimuli. More recently, it has been shown to increase 
the range of spiking behaviors exhibited in some neural populations. Channel
numbers are tied to metabolic efficiency and the stability of resting potential, 
and channel noise might be exploited by future cochlear implants in order to
improve the temporal representation of sound.


PMID: 10675918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1716. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):126-31.

The origin and migration of cortical neurones: new vistas.

Parnavelas JG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, University College London, London, 
UK WC1E 6BT.

The principal neuronal types of the cerebral cortex are the excitatory pyramidal 
cells, which project to distant targets, and the inhibitory nonpyramidal cells,
which are the cortical interneurones. This article reviews evidence suggesting
that these two neuronal types are generated in distinct proliferative zones.
Pyramidal cells are derived from the neuroepithelium in the cortical ventricular 
zone, and use the processes of radial glia in order to migrate and take their
positions in the cortex in an 'inside-out' sequence. Relatively few nonpyramidal 
cells are generated in the cortical neuroepithelium: the majority is derived from
the ganglionic eminence of the ventral telencephalon. These nonpyramidal neurones
use tangential migratory paths to reach the cortex, probably travelling along
axonal bundles of the developing corticofugal fibre system.


PMID: 10675917  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1717. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):120-6.

Acetylcholine-mediated modulation of striatal function.

Calabresi P(1), Centonze D, Gubellini P, Pisani A, Bernardi G.

Author information: 
(1)Clinica Neurologica, Dipartimento di Neuroscienze, Università di 'Tor
Vergata', Rome, Italy.

Striatal spiny neurones serve as a major anatomical locus for the relay of
cortical information flow through the basal ganglia. these projection neurones
also represent the main synaptic target of cholinergic interneurones, whose
physiological role in striatal activity still remains largely enigmatic. The
striatal cholinergic system has been implicated in the pathophysiology of
movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease, but the cellular mechanisms
underlying cholinergic-neurone function are still unknown. On the basis of in
vitro electrophysiological evidence, obtained from a rat corticostriatal-slice
preparation, we propose that endogenous ACh exerts a complex modulation of
striatal synaptic transmission, which produces both short-term and long-term
effects. ACh-mediated mechanisms might be of crucial importance in processing the
cortical inputs to the striatum.


PMID: 10675916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1718. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):115-20.

Cross-modal reorganization of human cortical functions.

Kujala T(1), Alho K, Näätänen R.

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Brain Research Unit, Dept of Psychology, University of Helsinki,
FIN-00014 Helsinki, Finland.

Recent technological development has opened fascinating opportunities in research
on cognitive functions of the human brain. For example, cortical representations 
of sensory functions and their reorganization, which have been studied thoroughly
in animals, are far better understood in humans now than they were only a decade 
ago. Hemodynamic and electromagnetic studies have demonstrated that a
modality-specific brain area that is totally deprived of its normal sensory input
becomes responsive to stimulation of other modalities. The functional
significance of this cross-modal activation was recently indicated by, for
example, studies showing that the occipital cortex of the blind is activated by
sound changes, when the task is to detect these changes. Moreover, trans-cranial 
magnetic stimulation applied to the occipital cortex of blind individuals results
in distortions and omissions of letters in Braille text being read by the
subject. Contrary to prevailing views, cross-modal neural reorganization might,
as shown by recent results, take place even in the mature human brain.


PMID: 10675915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1719. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):114.

Immunization with beta-amyloid: could T-cell activation have a harmful effect?

Grubeck-Loebenstein B, Blasko I, Marx FK, Trieb I.


PMID: 10675914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1720. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):113-4.

What is a neuropeptide?

Kastin AJ.


PMID: 10675912  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1721. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):113; author reply 114.

Peptide hormones and neuropeptides: birds of a feather.

de Wied D.


PMID: 10675911  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1722. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):105-13.

Unveiling synaptic plasticity: a new graphical and analytical approach.

Clements JD(1), Silver RA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Australian National
University, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia.

Short-term synaptic plasticity has a key role in information processing in the
CNS, whereas memories can be formed through long-lasting changes in synaptic
strength. Despite the importance of these phenomena, it remains difficult to
determine whether a synaptic modulation is expressed at a presynaptic or
postsynaptic site. This article describes a new approach that, in its simplest
form, can identify the site of expression by direct graphical means. A
more-sophisticated form of the technique can quantify functional synaptic
properties and determine which of these properties is altered following a
modulation of synaptic strength.


PMID: 10675910  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1723. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):100-5.

Cell birth, cell death, cell diversity and DNA breaks: how do they all fit
together?

Gilmore EC(1), Nowakowski RS, Caviness VS Jr, Herrup K.

Collaborators: Nowakowski RS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve
University, University Hospitals of Cleveland, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. (2)U Med
& Dent NJ, Piscataway

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):407-9.

Substantial death of migrating and differentiating neurons occurs within the
developing CNS of mice that are deficient in genes required for repair of
double-stranded DNA breaks. These findings suggest that large-scale, yet
previously unrecognized, double-stranded DNA breaks occur normally in early
postmitotic and differentiating neurons. Moreover, they imply that cell death
occurs if the breaks are not repaired. The cause and natural function of such
breaks remains a mystery; however, their occurrence has significant implications.
They might be detected by histological methods that are sensitive to DNA
fragmentation and mistakenly interpreted to indicate cell death when no
relationship exists. In a broader context, there is now renewed speculation that 
DNA recombination might be occurring during neuronal development, similar to DNA 
recombination in developing lymphocytes. If this is true, the target gene(s) of
recombination and their significance remain to be determined.


PMID: 10675909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1724. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):92-9.

The neurobiology of duchenne muscular dystrophy: learning lessons from muscle?

Blake DJ(1), Kröger S.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Human Anatomy and Genetics, University of Oxford, UK OX1 3QX.

Several forms of inherited muscular dystrophy are associated with brain
abnormalities and cognitive impairment. One of the most common and severe of
these diseases is Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Dystrophin, the product of
the DMD gene, is found in neurones, where it is associated with the postsynaptic 
membrane. Cognitive impairment in individuals with DMD is thought to be due to an
abnormality in the neuronal membrane that is caused by lack of dystrophin. Recent
experimental evidence has provided valuable clues in our understanding of the
complex molecular neurobiology of muscular dystrophy.


PMID: 10675908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1725. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Mar;23(3):114.

Reply to de Wied and Kastin.

Iversen I I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK OX1 3QT.


PMID: 10675913  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1726. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):47.

Ladislav Tauc (1926-1999)

Israel M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology, CNRS, Gif-sur-Yvette,
France.


PMID: 10681266  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1727. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):80-8.

Complex interactions between mGluRs, intracellular Ca2+ stores and ion channels
in neurons.

Fagni L(1), Chavis P, Ango F, Bockaert J.

Author information: 
(1)CNRS-UPR 9023, 34094 Montpellier cedex 05, France.

Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) can increase intracellular Ca2+
concentration via Ins(1,4,5)P3- and ryanodine-sensitive Ca2+ stores in neurons.
Both types of store are coupled functionally to Ca2+-permeable channels found in 
the plasma membrane. The mGluR-mediated increase in intracellular Ca2+
concentration can activate Ca2+-sensitive K+ channels and Ca2+-dependent
nonselective cationic channels. These mGluR-mediated effects often result from
mobilization of Ca2+ from ryanodine-sensitive, rather than Ins(1,4,
5)P3-sensitive, Ca2+ stores, suggesting that close functional interactions exist 
between mGluRs, intracellular Ca2+ stores and Ca2+-sensitive ion channels in the 
membrane.


PMID: 10652549  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1728. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):75-80.

Postsynaptic protein phosphorylation and LTP.

Soderling TR(1), Derkach VA.

Author information: 
(1)Vollum Institute, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland, OR 97201, USA.

Prolonged changes in synaptic strength, such as those that occur in LTP and LTD, 
are thought to contribute to learning and memory processes. These complex
phenomena occur in diverse brain structures and use multiple, temporally staged
and spatially resolved mechanisms, such as changes in neurotransmitter release,
modulation of transmitter receptors, alterations in synaptic structure, and
regulation of gene expression and protein synthesis. In the CA1 region of the
hippocampus, the combined activation of SRC family tyrosine kinases, protein
kinase A, protein kinase C and, in particular, Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein 
kinase II results in phosphorylation of glutamate-receptor-gated ion channels and
the enhancement of subsequent postsynaptic current. Crosstalk between these
complex biochemical pathways can account for most characteristics of early-phase 
LTP in this region.


PMID: 10652548  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1729. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):68-74.

Gap junctions, synchrony and seizures.

Perez Velazquez JL(1), Carlen PL.

Author information: 
(1)Playfair Neuroscience Unit, Bloorview Epilepsy Programme, Depts of Medicine
(Neurology) and Physiology, University of Toronto, Toronto Western Hospital,
Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5T 2S8.

The old concept that the direct intercellular cytoplasmic connections between
neurones participate in the coordination of neuronal activity has gained new
relevance, owing to recent theoretical and experimental evidence, particularly
with regard to neuronal synchronization and epileptogenesis. Computer simulations
demonstrating that neurones synchronize and alter their firing patterns depending
on gap-junctional communication, have provided insights into the interactions
between electrotonic coupling and cellular and synaptic characteristics.
Experimental manipulations of gap-junctional communication support its role in
the generation and maintenance of synchronized neuronal firing and seizures.
Hence, in addition to chemical transmission, direct electrotonic coupling might
contribute to normal and abnormal physiological brain rhythms.


PMID: 10652547  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1730. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):60-8.

Autoreceptors, membrane potential and the regulation of transmitter release.

Parnas H(1), Segel L, Dudel J, Parnas I.

Author information: 
(1)Otto Loewi Minerva Center for Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology, Dept of
Neurobiology, Alexander Silberman Institute of Life Sciences, The Hebrew
University, Jerusalem 91904, Israel.

It has been suggested that depolarization per se can control neurotransmitter
release, in addition to its role in promoting Ca2+ influx. The 'Ca2+ hypothesis' 
has provided an essential framework for understanding how Ca2+ entry and
accumulation in nerve terminals controls transmitter release. Yet, increases in
intracellular Ca2+ levels alone cannot account for the initiation and termination
of release; some additional mechanism is needed. Several experiments from various
laboratories indicate that membrane potential has a decisive role in controlling 
this release. For example, depolarization causes release when Ca2+ entry is
blocked and intracellular Ca2+ levels are held at an elevated level. The key
molecules that link membrane potential with release control have not yet been
identified: likely candidates are presynaptic autoreceptors and perhaps the Ca2+ 
channel itself.


PMID: 10652546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1731. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):58-9.

Volume transmission.

Ridet I, Privat A.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):377-82.


PMID: 10652543  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1732. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):57-8.

Fast regulation of steroid biosynthesis: a further piece in the neurosteroid
puzzle.

Balthazart I, Ball GF.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):410-6.


PMID: 10652541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1733. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):53-7.

Dendritic spine formation and pruning: common cellular mechanisms?

Segal I(1), Korkotian I, Murphy DD.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, The Weizmann Institute, Rehovot 76100, Israel.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):198.

The recent advent of novel high-resolution imaging methods has created a flurry
of exciting observations that address a century-old question: what are biological
signals that regulate formation and elimination of dendritic spines? Contrary to 
the traditional belief that the spine is a stable storage site of long-term
neuronal memory, the emerging picture is of a dynamic structure that can undergo 
fast morphological variations. Recent conflicting reports on the regulation of
spine morphology lead to the proposal of a unifying hypothesis for a common
mechanism involving changes in postsynaptic intracellular Ca2+ concentration,
[Ca2+]i: a moderate rise in [Ca2+]i causes elongation of dendritic spines, while 
a very large increase in [Ca2+]i causes fast shrinkage and eventual collapse of
spines. This hypothesis provides a parsimonious explanation for conflicting
reports on activity-dependent changes in dendritic spine morphology, and might
link these changes to functional plasticity in central neurons.


PMID: 10652540  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1734. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):48-53.

Is CREB a key to neuronal survival?

Walton MR(1), Dragunow I.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, University of
Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

A range of molecules control nerve-cell survival in the brain. Many of these
molecules might be neuroprotective through activation of the transcription factor
cAMP-response-element-binding protein (CREB). Activation of CREB, by
phosphorylation of Ser133, occurs in brain-damage-resistant hippocampal dentate
granule cells and is triggered by neuroprotective environmental stimulation. In
addition, the Akt neuroprotective signaling pathway activates CREB, and CREB
synthesis and phosphorylation promote the survival of many cells, including
neurons, in vitro. Thus, CREB might be responsible for programmed nerve-cell
survival. Studies investigating its role in the brain are now required to confirm
these in vitro results, and the downstream survival genes, whose expression is
activated by CREB in neurons, need to be identified.


PMID: 10652539  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1735. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):59.

Calpain and caspase: can you tell the difference?, by kevin K.W. WangVol. 23, pp.
20-26

Wang KK.


PMID: 10652545  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1736. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):59.

Reply

Wightman RM(1), Bunin MA.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Chemistry and Neurobiology Curriculum, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3290, USA.


PMID: 10652544  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1737. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):58.

Reply

Rupprecht I I(1), Holsboer I I.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychiatry, Ludwig-Maximilians-University of Munich, 80336 Munich,
Germany.


PMID: 10652542  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1738. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):47.

Ladislav tauc (1926-1999)

Israel I I(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Neurobiology, CNRS, Gif-sur-Yvette,
France.


PMID: 10652538  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1739. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jan;23(1):43.

Corrigendum.

Kasai H.


PMID: 10637645  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1740. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jan;23(1):39.

Rod pathways: the importance of seeing nothing, by Lindsay T. Sharpe and Andrew
Stockman, Vol. 22, pp. 497-504.

Sharpe LT, Stockman I I.


PMID: 10637644  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1741. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jan;23(1):35-9.

The primate pulvinar nuclei: vision and action.

Grieve KL(1), Acuña C, Cudeiro J.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Optometry and Neuroscience, UMIST, Manchester, UK.

The pulvinar nuclei of the thalamus are proportionately larger in higher mammals,
particularly in primates, and account for a quarter of the total mass.
Traditionally, these nuclei have been divided into oral (somatosensory), superior
and inferior (both visual) and medial (visual, multi-sensory) divisions. With
reciprocal connections to vast areas of cerebral cortex, and input from the
colliculus and retina, they occupy an analogous position in the extra-striate
visual system to the lateral geniculate nucleus in the primary visual pathway,
but deal with higher-order visual and visuomotor transduction. With a renewed
recent interest in this thalamic nuclear collection, and growth in our knowledge 
of the cortex with which it communicates, perhaps the time is right to look to
new dimensions in the pulvinar code.


PMID: 10631787  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1742. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jan;23(1):26-34.

Retinal mosaics: new insights into an old concept.

Cook JE(1), Chalupa LM.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, University College London, UK.

It has been known since the middle of the 19th century that different neuronal
types are distributed across the retinal surface in non-random arrays: indeed,
these arrays, called 'mosaics', have long been considered to be a fundamental
feature of retinal organization. However, until recently, little was known about 
how such mosaics are established during development. In the hope of stimulating
further research, this article reviews the current status of three very different
approaches to this intriguing general problem. The first postulates arrays of
molecular markers, which are produced by specific cell types shortly after their 
final mitotic divisions and could be influential in the differentiation of other 
cell types. The second invokes a tangential dispersion of differentiating cells
to generate spatial order, either while these cells are still migrating or soon
after they reach their laminar destinations. The third involves the elimination
of wrongly positioned cells through the process of naturally occurring cell
death.


PMID: 10631786  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1743. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jan;23(1):20-6.

Calpain and caspase: can you tell the difference?

Wang KK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience Therapeutics, Parke-Davis Pharmaceutical Research,
Warner-Lambert Company, Ann Arbor, MI 48105, USA. kevin.wang@wl.com

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2000 Feb;23(2):59.

Both necrotic and apoptotic neuronal death are observed in various neurological
and neurodegenerative disorders. Calpain is activated in various necrotic and
apoptotic conditions, while caspase 3 is only activated in neuronal apoptosis.
Despite the difference in cleavage-site specificity, an increasing number of
cellular proteins are found to be dually susceptible to these cysteine proteases.
These include alpha- and beta-fodrin, calmodulin-dependent protein kinases,
ADP-ribosyltransferase (ADPRT/PARP) and tau. Intriguingly, calpastatin is
susceptible to caspase-mediated fragmentation. Neurotoxic challenges such as
hypoxia-hypoglycemia, excitotoxin treatment or metabolic inhibition of cultured
neurons result in activation of both proteases. Calpain inhibitors can protect
against necrotic neuronal death and, to a lesser extent, apoptotic death. Caspase
inhibitors strongly suppress apoptotic neuronal death. Thus, both protease
families might contribute to structural derangement and functional loss in
neurons under degenerative conditions.


PMID: 10631785  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1744. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jan;23(1):14-20.

The endogenous cannabinoid system and brain development.

Fernández-Ruiz J(1), Berrendero F, Hernández ML, Ramos JA.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica y Biología Molecular, Facultad de Medicina,
Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain.

Cannabinoid receptors and their endogenous ligands constitute a novel modulatory 
system that is involved in specific brain functions, such as nociception, control
of movement, memory and neuroendocrine regulation. Recently, it has also been
suggested that this system is involved in brain development. Studies have used a 
variety of techniques to elucidate the effects of cannabinoids during
development, as well as to characterize the presence of elements of the
endogenous cannabinoid system (receptors and ligands) in the developing brain.
Collectively, they suggest that endocannabinoids participate in brain development
through the activation of second-messenger-coupled cannabinoid receptors.


PMID: 10631784  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1745. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jan;23(1):13-4.

Visual-membrane vulnerability: the fatty-acid connection.

Meyer-Rochow VB.


PMID: 10631783  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1746. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jan;23(1):12-3.

Do extracellular Ca2+ signals carry information through neural tissue?

King RD, Wiest MC, Montague PR, Eagleman DM.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):382-8.


PMID: 10631782  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1747. Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jan;23(1):1-12.

Do birds possess homologues of mammalian primary visual, somatosensory and motor 
cortices?

Medina L(1), Reiner A.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Morphological Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Murcia,
Spain.

Recent data on the expression of several homeobox genes in the embryonic
telencephalon of mammals, birds and reptiles support the homology of a part of
the avian pallium, named the Wulst, and at least the more-medial and superior
parts of mammalian neocortex. This conclusion is also supported by previous
embryological, topological and hodological data. Furthermore, new evidence on the
connections and electrophysiological properties of specific subfields within the 
avian Wulst, and on the thalamic territories that project to these fields,
supports the more-specific conclusion that a primary visual area and a primary
somatosensory-somatomotor area are present in the avian Wulst; these areas are
likely to be homologous to their counterparts in mammals. In spite of this,
developmental, morphological and comparative evidence indicate that some
structural and physiological traits that appear to be similar in the Wulst and
neocortex (such as the lamination or binocularity) evolved independently in birds
and mammals.


PMID: 10631781  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1748. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):543.

Estimation of information in neuronal responses.

Victor J, Purpura K.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):303-9.


PMID: 10542432  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1749. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):541-3.

Consciousness in mind: a correlate for ACh?

Hölscher C.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):273-80.


PMID: 10542430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1750. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):540-1.

Cholinergic correlates of consciousness: from mind to molecules.

Woolf NJ.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):273-80.


PMID: 10542429  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1751. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):561-7.

Long-term potentiation in the amygdala: a mechanism for emotional learning and
memory.

Maren S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology and Neuroscience Program, University of Michigan, MI
48109-1109, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Aug;23(8):345-6.

In the mammalian brain, LTP is an enduring form of synaptic plasticity that is
posited to have a role in learning and memory. Compelling new evidence for this
view derives from studies of LTP in the amygdala, a brain structure that is
essential for simple forms of emotional learning and memory, such as Pavlovian
fear conditioning in rats. More specifically, antagonists of the NMDA receptor
block both amygdaloid LTP induction and fear conditioning, fear conditioning
induces increases in amygdaloid synaptic transmission that resemble LTP, and
genetic modifications that disrupt amygdaloid LTP eliminate fear conditioning.
Collectively, these results provide the most-convincing evidence to date that LTP
mediates learning and memory in mammals.


PMID: 10542437  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1752. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):555-61.

Nicotinic receptors in the brain: correlating physiology with function.

Jones S(1), Sudweeks S, Yakel JL.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

Nicotinic ACh receptors (nAChRs) have been implicated in a variety of brain
functions, including neuronal development, learning and memory formation, and
reward. Although there are substantial data indicating that nAChR subunits are
found in many brain regions, the precise cellular roles of these subunits in
neuronal functions have remained elusive. Until recently, nAChRs were thought
primarily to serve a modulatory role in the brain by regulating neurotransmitter 
release from nerve terminals. However, new evidence has revealed that nAChRs also
function in a postsynaptic role by mediating fast ACh-mediated synaptic
transmission in the hippocampus and in the sensory cortex, and are found at
somatodendritic as well as nerve terminal sites in the reward system. It is
possible that presynaptic and postsynaptic nAChRs mediate changes in the efficacy
of synaptic transmission in these brain regions. These changes could underlie the
proposed functions of nAChRs in cognitive functions of the hippocampus and
cerebral cortex, in neuronal development in the sensory cortex, and in reward.


PMID: 10542436  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1753. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):550-5.

Sensing effectors make sense.

Wenning A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiologia, Stazione Zoologica 'Anton Dohrn', Villa Comunale, I-80121
Napoli, Italy. awenning@biology.emory.edu

'Housekeepers' of living organisms maintain salt and water balance, monitor blood
sugar and schedule their work to the season and the time of day. In order to
perform their chores, they rely on information about the status quo. The
traditional concept of a sensor that communicates with a central comparator
authorizing an effector, which was inspired by engineers, has become blurred in
the search for morphological correlates of such regulatory cascades. In many
cases, neurones, which are both sensory and neurosecretory, and endocrine cells
equipped with smart detectors, reliably regulate autonomous functions by using
local rather than central computing. Like the well-trained staff of a smoothly
run household, such 'sensing effectors' translate information into action.


PMID: 10542435  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1754. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):544-50.

Tracking with the mind's eye.

Krauzlis RJ(1), Stone LS.

Collaborators: Stone LS(2).

Author information: 
(1)Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. (2)ARC

The two components of voluntary tracking eye-movements in primates, pursuit and
saccades, are generally viewed as relatively independent oculomotor subsystems
that move the eyes in different ways using independent visual information.
Although saccades have long been known to be guided by visual processes related
to perception and cognition, only recently have psychophysical and physiological 
studies provided compelling evidence that pursuit is also guided by such
higher-order visual processes, rather than by the raw retinal stimulus. Pursuit
and saccades also do not appear to be entirely independent anatomical systems,
but involve overlapping neural mechanisms that might be important for
coordinating these two types of eye movement during the tracking of a selected
visual object. Given that the recovery of objects from real-world images is
inherently ambiguous, guiding both pursuit and saccades with perception could
represent an explicit strategy for ensuring that these two motor actions are
driven by a single visual interpretation.


PMID: 10542434  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1755. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):543.

Reply to victor and purpura

Buracas GT(1), Albright TD.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, CA 92037, USA.


PMID: 10542433  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1756. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):542-3.

Reply to Holscher

Perry E(1), Walker M, Perry R.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Neurochemical Pathology Unit, Newcastle General Hospital, Newcastle upon
Tyne, UK NE4 6BE.


PMID: 10542431  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1757. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):535-40.

Clinical trials with neuroprotective drugs in acute ischaemic stroke: are we
doing the right thing?

De Keyser J(1), Sulter G, Luiten PG.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Academisch Ziekenhuis Groningen, 9700 RB Groningen, The
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jun;23(6):245-6.

Ischaemic stroke is a leading cause of death and long-lasting disability. Several
neuroprotective drugs have been developed that have the potential to limit
ischaemic brain damage and improve outcome for patients. While promising results 
with these drugs have been achieved in animal stroke models, all Phase III trials
conducted so far indicate that these drugs have failed to live up to their
promise. Despite the limits of animal models, which cannot mimic the clinical
situation, the disappointing results of neuroprotective trials might largely be
due to methodological problems. Future trials with neuroprotective drugs should
be performed in stroke (care) units, after sufficient information regarding
therapeutic time window, dosage, duration of therapy and safety has been gathered
from pilot studies, and a better selection of target patients has been made. Much
of this information can now be obtained by techniques that visualize the
penumbra, such as combined diffusion-weighted and perfusion MRI. Consideration
should also be given to clinical trials with well-designed combinations of
treatments.


PMID: 10542428  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1758. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):529-34.

Retinotectal maps: molecules, models and misplaced data.

Goodhill GJ(1), Richards LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Georgetown Institute for Cognitive and Computational Sciences, Georgetown
University Medical Center, Washington, DC 20007, USA.

The mechanisms underlying the formation of topographic maps in the retinotectal
system have long been debated. Recently, members of the Eph and ephrin
receptor-ligand family have been found to provide a molecular substrate for one
type of mechanism, that of chemospecific gradient matching, as proposed by
Sperry. However, experiments over several decades have demonstrated that there is
more to map formation than gradient matching. This article briefly reviews the
old and new findings, argues that these two types of data must be properly
integrated in order to understand map formation fully, and suggests some
experimental and theoretical ways to begin this process.


PMID: 10542427  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1759. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):495-6.

Unilateral arthritis: contralateral effects.

Donaldson LF.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):122-7.


PMID: 10530993  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1760. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):496-7.

Contralateral effects of peripheral nerve injury.

Lowrie MB.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):122-7.


PMID: 10529816  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1761. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):495.

MAPK and memory.

Walz R, Rockenbach IC, Amaral OB, Quevedo J, Roesler R.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jan;22(1):38-44.


PMID: 10529815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1762. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):521-7.

The dopamine hypothesis of reward: past and current status.

Spanagel R(1), Weiss F.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, 80804 Munich, Germany.

Mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons are thought to serve as a final common neural
pathway for mediating reinforcement processes. However, several recent findings
have challenged the view that mesolimbic dopamine has a crucial role in the
maintenance of reinforcement processes, or the subjective rewarding actions of
natural rewards and drugs of abuse. Instead, there is growing evidence that
dopamine is involved in the formation of associations between salient contextual 
stimuli and internal rewarding or aversive events. This evidence suggests that
dopaminergic-neuron activation aids the organism in learning to recognize stimuli
associated with such events. Thus, mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons have an
important function in the acquisition of behavior reinforced by natural reward
and drug stimuli. Furthermore, long-lasting neuroadaptive changes in mesolimbic
dopamine-mediated transmission that develop during chronic drug use might
contribute to compulsive drug-seeking behavior and relapse.


PMID: 10529820  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1763. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):513-20.

Dynamics of neuronal processing in rat somatosensory cortex.

Moore CI(1), Nelson SB, Sur M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

Recently, the study of sensory cortex has focused on the context-dependent
evolution of receptive fields and cortical maps over millisecond to second
time-scales. This article reviews advances in our understanding of these
processes in the rat primary somatosensory cortex (SI). Subthreshold input to
individual rat SI neurons is extensive, spanning several vibrissae from the
center of the receptive field, and arrives within 25 ms of vibrissa deflection.
These large subthreshold receptive fields provide a broad substrate for rapid
excitatory and inhibitory multi-vibrissa interactions. The 'whisking' behavior,
an approximately 8 Hz ellipsoid movement of the vibrissae, introduces a
context-dependent change in the pattern of vibrissa movement during tactile
exploration. Stimulation of vibrissae over this frequency range modulates the
pattern of activity in thalamic and cortical neurons, and, at the level of the
cortical map, focuses the extent of the vibrissa representation relative to lower
frequency stimulation (1 Hz). These findings suggest that one function of
whisking is to reset cortical organization to improve tactile discrimination.
Recent discoveries in primary visual cortex (VI) demonstrate parallel
non-linearities in center-surround interactions in rat SI and VI, and provide a
model for the rapid integration of multi-vibrissa input. The studies discussed in
this article suggest that, despite its original conception as a uniquely
segregated cortex, rat SI has a wide array of dynamic interactions, and that the 
study of this region will provide insight into the general mechanisms of cortical
dynamics engaged by sensory systems.


PMID: 10529819  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1764. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):504-12.

Chemokines in the CNS: plurifunctional mediators in diverse states.

Asensio VC(1), Campbell IL.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuropharmacology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037,
USA.

The past decade has witnessed the remarkable ascendance of chemokines as pivotal 
regulatory molecules in cellular communication and trafficking. Evidence
increasingly implicates chemokines and chemokine receptors as plurifunctional
molecules that have a significant impact on the CNS. Initially, these molecules
were found to be involved in the pathogenesis of many important neuroinflammatory
diseases that range from multiple sclerosis and stroke to HIV encephalopathy.
However, more-recent studies have fuelled the realization that, in addition to
their role in pathological states, chemokines and their receptors have an
important role in cellular communication in the developing and the normal adult
CNS. For example, stromal-cell-derived factor 1, which is synthesized
constitutively in the developing brain, has an obligate role in neurone migration
during the formation of the granule-cell layer of the cerebellum. Many chemokines
are capable of directly regulating signal-transduction pathways that are involved
in a variety of cellular functions, which range from synaptic transmission to
growth. Clearly, the potential use of chemokines and their receptors as targets
for therapeutic intervention in CNS disease might now have to be considered in
the context of the broader physiological functions of these molecules.


PMID: 10529818  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1765. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):497-504.

Rod pathways: the importance of seeing nothing.

Sharpe LT(1), Stockman A.

Author information: 
(1)Forschungsstelle für Experimentelle Ophthalmologie, D-72076 Tübingen, Germany.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2000 Jan;23(1):39.

Anatomical and physiological studies of the mammalian retina have revealed two
primary pathways available for the transmission of rod signals to the ganglion
cells: one via ON rod bipolars, amacrine II cells, and ON and OFF cone bipolars, 
which is exquisitely designed for the transmission of single-photon absorption
events; and a second via rod-cone gap junctions, and ON and OFF cone bipolars,
which is designed for the transmission of multiple photon-absorption events at
higher light levels. Psychophysical and electroretinographic (ERG) studies in
normal observers and in two rare types of observer, who are devoid of either rod 
or cone function, support an analogous duality in the human visual system, the
clearest signature of which is a loss of flicker visibility and ERG amplitude at 
frequencies near 15 Hz that results from destructive interference between
sensitive 'slow' and insensitive 'fast' rod signals. The slow rod signal is most 
probably derived from the ON rod bipolar pathway and the fast signal from the
rod-cone gap junction and cone pathways. Evidence has emerged recently for a
third, insensitive rod pathway between rods and OFF cone bipolars, but it has so 
far only been observed clearly in rodents.


PMID: 10529817  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1766. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):488-95.

New Ca2+-releasing messengers: are they important in the nervous system?

Petersen OH(1), Cancela JM.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Secretory Control Research Group, Dept of Physiology, University of
Liverpool, Liverpool, UK L69 3BX.

In the nervous system, Ca2+ signalling is determined primarily by voltage-gated
Ca2+-selective channels in the plasma membrane, but there is increasing evidence 
for involvement of intracellular Ca2+ stores in such signalling. It is generally 
assumed that neurotransmitter-elicited release of Ca2+ from internal stores is
primarily mediated by Ins(1,4,5)P3, as originally discovered in pancreatic acinar
cells. The more-recently discovered Ca2+-releasing messenger, cyclic ADP-ribose
(cADPR), which activates ryanodine receptors, has so far only been implicated in 
a few cases, and the possible importance of another Ca2+-releasing molecule,
nicotinic acid adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAADP), has been ignored. Recent
investigations of the action of the brain-gut peptide cholecystokinin on
pancreatic acinar cells have indicated that NAADP and cADPR receptors are
essential for Ca2+ release. Tools are available for testing the possible
involvement of NAADP and cADPR in neurotransmitter-elicited intracellular Ca2+
release, and such studies could reveal complex mechanisms that control this
release in the nervous system.


PMID: 10529814  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1767. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):486-8.

VENT cells: a fresh breeze in a stuffy field?

Erickson CA(1), Weston JA.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of California, Davis, CA 95616,
USA.


PMID: 10529813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1768. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):485-6.

Curing amyloidosis: will it work in humans?

Duff K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nathan Kline Institute, Orangeburg, NY 10962, USA.


PMID: 10529812  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1769. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):417-8.

The frontiers of sleep.

Tononi G(1), Cirelli C.

Author information: 
(1)The Neurosciences Institute, San Diego, CA 92121, USA.


PMID: 10577249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1770. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):464-71.

Parallel neural networks for learning sequential procedures.

Hikosaka O(1), Nakahara H, Rand MK, Sakai K, Lu X, Nakamura K, Miyachi S, Doya K.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, Juntendo University, School of Medicine, Tokyo 113-0033,
Japan.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 1999 Dec;22(12):following 568.

Recent studies have shown that multiple brain areas contribute to different
stages and aspects of procedural learning. On the basis of a series of studies
using a sequence-learning task with trial-and-error, we propose a hypothetical
scheme in which a sequential procedure is acquired independently by two cortical 
systems, one using spatial coordinates and the other using motor coordinates.
They are active preferentially in the early and late stages of learning,
respectively. Both of the two systems are supported by loop circuits formed with 
the basal ganglia and the cerebellum, the former for reward-based evaluation and 
the latter for processing of timing. The proposed neural architecture would
operate in a flexible manner to acquire and execute multiple sequential
procedures.


PMID: 10481194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1771. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):437-8.

The many ways of building collision-sensitive neurons.

Gabbiani F, Laurent G, Hatsopoulos N, Krapp HG.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):215-20.


PMID: 10481188  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1772. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):436-7; author reply 438.

Time to decrease the weight attached to looming?

Mon-Williams M.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):215-20.


PMID: 10481187  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1773. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):471-9.

AIDS and the brain: is there a chemokine connection?

Miller RJ(1), Meucci O.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacological and Physiological Sciences, The University of Chicago,
Chicago, IL 60637, USA.

Many HIV-1-positive individuals suffer from a variety of neurological problems
known collectively as the HIV-1-related cognitive-motor complex. However, the
molecular mechanisms that underlie HIV-1-induced neuropathology are unclear. They
might include a combination of indirect effects, which result from the release of
neurotoxins from activated astrocytes and microglia, and the direct effects of
HIV-1-related proteins, such as gp120, on neurons. As the interaction of gp120
with immune cells has been shown to require the participation of chemokine
receptors, this article explores the possibility that such receptors participate 
in the events underlying HIV-1-induced neuropathology. It is now clear that many 
types of cell in the brain possess chemokine receptors, including microglia, glia
and neurons, and the interaction of gp120 with neuronal chemokine receptors
initiates apoptotic death of neurons in vitro. Such effects might be modified by 
the actions of chemokines that act at these same receptors. However, the
importance of this direct interaction with neurons in vivo and its relevance in
the pathogenesis of AIDS-related dementia still needs to be established.
Furthermore, the existence of chemokine receptors on neurons suggests that
chemokines might regulate neuronal functions physiologically.


PMID: 10481195  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1774. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):459-64.

Protein phosphorylation and the regulation of synaptic membrane traffic.

Turner KM(1), Burgoyne RD, Morgan A.

Author information: 
(1)Physiological Laboratory, University of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 3BX, UK.

It is well established that protein phosphorylation has an important role in
synaptic plasticity. This is achieved, in part, via the presynaptic modulation of
neurotransmitter release by protein kinases and protein phosphatases. In recent
years, the increase in information available about proteins that are involved in 
synaptic exocytosis and endocytosis has been exploited in order to study the
effects of protein phosphorylation on synaptic-vesicle cycling at the molecular
level. The best-characterized protein in this respect is synapsin, whose function
in the release of synaptic vesicles from the reserve pool is regulated by
phosphorylation. More recently, it has emerged that proteins that function at
other stages of the synaptic-vesicle cycle, which include priming of vesicles for
docking-fusion and endocytic recycling, are also controlled by phosphorylation.
Furthermore, recent work suggests that this regulation of membrane traffic by
phosphorylation also occurs postsynaptically, where it contributes to synaptic
plasticity.


PMID: 10481193  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1775. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):451-8.

Shaping excitation at glutamatergic synapses.

Conti F(1), Weinberg RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Fisiologia Umana, Università di Ancona, I-60020 Ancona, Italy.

Glutamatergic synapses vary, exhibiting EPSCs of widely different magnitudes and 
timecourses. The main contributors to this variability are: presynaptic factors, 
including release probability, quantal content and vesicle composition; factors
that modulate the concentration and longevity of glutamate in the cleft,
including diffusion and the actions of glutamate transporters; and postsynaptic
factors, including the types and locations of ionotropic glutamate receptors,
their numbers, and the nature and locations of associated intracellular
signalling systems.


PMID: 10481192  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1776. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):443-51.

Binding of signals relevant for action: towards a hypothesis of the functional
role of the pontine nuclei.

Schwarz C(1), Thier P.

Author information: 
(1)Sektion für Visuelle Sensomotorik, Neurologische Universitätsklinik Tübingen, 
72076 Tübingen, Germany.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Apr;23(4):152-3.

If numbers matter, the projection that connects the cerebral cortex to the
cerebellum is probably one of the most-important pathways through the CNS. Its
extensive development as one ascends the phylogenetic scale parallels that of the
cerebral hemispheres and the cerebellum, and it accompanies improvements in motor
skills, suggesting that this system might have a decisive role in the generation 
of skilled movement. This article focuses on the pontine nuclei (PN), which are
intercalated in the cerebro-cerebellar pathway, a large nuclear complex in the
ventral brainstem of mammals, whose raison d'être has as yet not been examined.
By considering recent morphological and electrophysiological findings, this
article argues that the PN are an interface that is needed to accommodate the
grossly different computational principles governing the cerebral cortex and the 
cerebellum.


PMID: 10481191  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1777. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):439-43.

Presenilins: molecular switches between proteolysis and signal transduction.

Annaert W(1), De Strooper B.

Author information: 
(1)Neuronal Cell Biology and Gene Transfer Laboratory, Centre for Human Genetics,
Flanders Interuniversitary, Institute for Biotechnology (VIB4), Gasthuisberg,
KULeuven, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium.

Mis-sense mutations of presenilin 1 increase the release of amyloidogenic peptide
from amyloid precursor protein (APP) and are a major cause of familial
Alzheimer's Disease. Loss-of-function mutations of presenilins in the mouse,
Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila result in severe developmental defects
caused by disturbed Notch signalling. Recent studies suggest that the diverse
biological roles of presenilin 1 can be explained at the molecular level by its
role in the proteolytic cleavage of the integral membrane domains of Notch and
APP. This cleavage is a central switch in Notch signalling, while, for APP, its
physiological role remains elusive. Evidence that presenilin 1 itself has
catalytic properties could explain many of the biological and biochemical
alterations caused by presenilin-1 deficiency or clinical mutations in presenilin
1. However, as presenilins reside in the endoplasmic reticulum and the cleavage
of Notch and APP is believed to occur close to the cell membrane, the scientific 
field now faces a 'spatial paradox'.


PMID: 10481190  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1778. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):438.

Reply.

Rind FC(1), Simmons PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Dept, School of Neurosciences and Psychiatry, University of
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK NE2 4HH.


PMID: 10481189  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1779. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):432-6.

Comparative studies of sex differences in the song-control system of songbirds.

MacDougall-Shackleton SA(1), Ball GF.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, University of Toronto at Mississauga, Mississauga,
Ontario, Canada L5L 1C6.

Songbirds exhibit some of the most extreme sex differences in the brain of all
vertebrates. Understanding the function of these sex differences has relied on
making interspecies comparisons. In some species, females sing rarely or not at
all, and the brain nuclei that control song are many times larger in volume in
males than in females. In other species, males and females sing approximately
equally, and the sizes of the brain nuclei that control song are approximately
equal between the sexes. This article reviews sex differences in the song-control
system of songbirds, and introduces statistical comparative methods developed by 
evolutionary biologists. These methods control for phylogenetic effects while
comparing the co-evolution of traits. The extreme sex differences in song seem to
have co-evolved with the extreme sex differences in singing behavior in songbird 
species.


PMID: 10481186  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1780. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):429-31.

'Psychosurgery' in renaissance art.

Gross CG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, Princeton University, NJ 08540, USA.

Hieronymus Bosch and other early Renaissance artists depicted 'stone operations' 
in which stones were supposedly surgically removed from the head as a treatment
for mental illness. These works have usually been interpreted either as
portraying a contemporary practice of medical charlatans or as an allegory of
human folly, rather than a real event. As trepanation for head injury and mental 
disease was actually carried out in Europe at this time, another interpretation
of these works is that they are derived from a common medical practice of the
day.


PMID: 10481185  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1781. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):427-8.

FENS 2000 - Federation of European Neuroscience Societies millennium meeting.

Stewart MG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biological Sciences, Open University, Milton Keynes, UK MK7 6AA.

In two articles by Wolf Singer, published in TINS in 1994 and 1997, brief
analyses were presented of the problems faced by the European neuroscience
community in its attempt to provide a cohesive response to meet the challenge of 
the proclamation of the 'Decade of the Brain'. One of the most-important
decisions was to promote a forum for European neuroscience that, among other
activities, would hold bi-annual meetings, alternating with meetings of partner
European neuroscience societies in the intervening year. The first fruit of this 
was the enormously successful meeting held in Berlin in June 1998. The next
meeting, the FENS millennium meeting, will be held in Brighton, UK (24-28 June
2000).


PMID: 10481184  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1782. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):422-6.

Stress and cognition: are corticosteroids good or bad guys?

de Kloet ER(1), Oitzl MS, Joëls M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Medical Pharmacology, Leiden/Amsterdam Center for Drug Research,
University of Leiden, 2300 RA Leiden, Netherlands.

Corticosteroid hormones secreted by the adrenal cortex protect the brain against 
adverse events and are essential for cognitive performance. However, in recent
literature, the central action of corticosteroids has mostly been portrayed as
damaging and disruptive to memory formation. We argue that this paradox can be
explained by appreciating the specific role of both mineralocorticoid and
glucocorticoid receptors in the various stages of information processing. In
addition, the context in which corticosteroid-receptor activation takes place is 
crucial in determining steroid-mediated effects. These effects generally favour
adaptive behaviour that is most relevant to the situation. Corticosteroid effects
on cognition can, however, turn from adaptive into maladaptive, when actions via 
the two corticosteroid-receptor types are imbalanced for a prolonged period of
time.


PMID: 10481183  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1783. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):419-22.

Neuronal apoptosis in acute necrotic insults: why is this subject such a mess?

Roy M(1), Sapolsky R.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biological Sciences, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Sep;23(9):410-1.

It is now recognized that necrotic neurological insults often trigger apoptosis
in a subset of neurons. It is also now apparent that such apoptosis rarely
matches the 'classical' apoptosis seen during development or the physiological
turnover of cells outside the nervous system. As a result, the view has emerged
that the 'apoptosis-like' changes that follow necrotic insults represent a
different phenomenon, which is on a vague continuum with the necrotic features of
cell death. We suggest that apoptosis following neurological insults is, in
actuality, mechanistically identical to classical apoptosis. However, the
atypical apoptotic endpoints that are observed are inevitable, given the way in
which insult-triggered apoptosis is likely to have evolved.


PMID: 10481182  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1784. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):416.

Erratum2

Turrigiano GG.


PMID: 10441303  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1785. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):410-6.

Neuroactive steroids: mechanisms of action and neuropsychopharmacological
perspectives.

Rupprecht R(1), Holsboer F.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychiatry, Ludwig-Maximilians-University of Munich, 80336 Munich,
Germany.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):57-8.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Oct;24(10):570-2.

Steroids influence neuronal function by binding to intracellular receptors that
can act as transcription factors and regulate gene expression. In addition, some 
so-called 'neuroactive steroids' are potent modulators of an array of
ligand-gated ion channels and of distinct G-protein coupled receptors via
nongenomic mechanisms, and they can influence sleep and memory. This article
describes how these neuroactive steroids modulate neurotransmitter receptors and 
addresses the neuropsychopharmacological potential that arises from the
intracellular crosstalk between genomic and nongenomic steroid effects.
Neuroactive steroids could also have a role in the response to stress and the
treatment of psychiatric disorders, such as depression, and, as they affect a
broad spectrum of behavioral functions through their unique molecular properties,
they could constitute a yet unexploited class of drugs.


PMID: 10441302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1786. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):390-1.

Reply

Mar n-Padilla M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pathology, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH 03755, USA.


PMID: 10441298  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1787. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):389.

Reply

Cudeiro J(1), Rivadulla C.

Author information: 
(1)E.U. Fisioterapia, Dept Medicina Campus de Oza, Universidad de A Coruna, 15006
A Coruna, Spain.


PMID: 10441297  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1788. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):382-8.

Hippocampal synapses: do they talk to their neighbours?

Rusakov DA(1), Kullmann DM, Stewart MG.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurophysiology, National Institute for Medical Research, London, 
UK NW7 1AA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Jan;23(1):12-3.

Recent experimental findings show that fast synaptic transmission can extend its 
actions beyond the immediate synaptic cleft. Whether this phenomenon results in
significant crosstalk between typical neighbouring synapses remains unclear. This
article considers two areas of the hippocampus, the CA1 and dentate gyrus, where 
important neural processing occurs. The results discussed do not provide a simple
answer to the question of whether synapses can 'talk' to their neighbours, but
they do reveal crucial physiological constraints that determine the significance 
of synaptic crosstalk, thus adding considerably to our understanding of chemical 
synaptic transmission.


PMID: 10441295  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1789. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):377-82.

Paracrine neurotransmission in the CNS: involvement of 5-HT.

Bunin MA(1), Wightman RM.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Chemistry and Neurobiology Curriculum, University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3290, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 Feb;23(2):58-9.

While GABA and glutamate have an established synaptic function in the CNS, recent
evidence suggests 5-HT neurotransmission is predominantly paracrine. As the
amino-acid neurotransmitters interact with receptors that produce effects
rapidly, electrophysiological approaches can be used to assess the time delay
between transmitter release and the postsynaptic response directly. However, this
approach cannot be used for studies of 5-HT-mediated neurotransmission, because
the majority of its receptors react more slowly, so anatomical and voltammetrical
approaches have been used to provide insight into 5-HT-mediated events. These
studies have revealed that extrasynaptic receptors and transporters for 5-HT
exist, and that 5-HT escapes readily from the synaptic cleft. Attenuation of 5-HT
binding by 5-HT-receptor antagonists and 5-HT-uptake inhibitors does not affect
the synaptic efflux elicited by transient stimuli, although the effects of such
drugs are apparent at later time points. Once it is extrasynaptic, 5-HT has a
concentration that is similar to those estimated to be optimal for receptor and
transporter activation, and it can diffuse a few micrometers until removed by its
transporter. These properties of 5-HT raise the possibility that it can act on
receptors that are distant from its release site and function as a paracrine
transmitter.


PMID: 10441294  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1790. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):389-90.

Neural migration, pro-inflammatory interleukins and periventricular leukomalacia:
involvement in schizophrenia.

Thomas KL, Huttunen M.


PMID: 10441315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1791. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):402-10.

Schwann cells and their precursors emerge as major regulators of nerve
development.

Jessen KR(1), Mirsky R.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, University College London, Gower
Street, London, UK WC1E 6BT.

It is becoming ever clearer that Schwann cells and Schwann-cell precursors are an
important source of developmental signals in embryonic and neonatal nerves. This 
article reviews experiments showing that these signals regulate the survival and 
differentiation of other cells in early nerves. The evidence indicates that
glial-derived signals are necessary for neuronal survival at crucial periods of
development, that they regulate the molecular and functional specialization of
axons and that they control the maturation of the perineurial sheath that
protects nerves from inflammation and unwanted macro-molecules produced in the
surrounding tissues. Furthermore, an autocrine survival circuit enables Schwann
cells in postnatal nerves to survive in the absence of axons, a vital requirement
for successful nerve regeneration following injury. The molecular identity of
these signals and their receptors is currently being determined.


PMID: 10441301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1792. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):397-402.

Complement anaphylatoxin receptors on neurons: new tricks for old receptors?

Nataf S(1), Stahel PF, Davoust N, Barnum SR.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Microbiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL
35294-0005, USA.

Activation of the complement system has been reported in a variety of
inflammatory diseases and neurodegenerative processes of the CNS. Recent evidence
indicates that complement proteins and receptors are synthesized on or by glial
cells and, surprisingly, neurons. Among these proteins are the receptors for the 
chemotactic and anaphylactic peptides, C5a and C3a, which are the most-potent
mediators of complement inflammatory functions. The functions of glial-cell C3a
and C5a receptors (C3aR and C5aR) appear to be similar to immune-cell C3aRs and
C5aRs. However, little is known about the roles these receptors might have on
neurons. Indeed, when compared with glial cells, neurons display a distinct
pattern of C3aR and C5aR expression, in either the normal or the inflamed CNS.
These findings suggest unique functions for these receptors on neurons.


PMID: 10441300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1793. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):391-7.

Pathobiology of ischaemic stroke: an integrated view.

Dirnagl U(1), Iadecola C, Moskowitz MA.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Charité Hospital, 10098 Berlin, Germany.

Brain injury following transient or permanent focal cerebral ischaemia (stroke)
develops from a complex series of pathophysiological events that evolve in time
and space. In this article, the relevance of excitotoxicity, peri-infarct
depolarizations, inflammation and apoptosis to delayed mechanisms of damage
within the peri-infarct zone or ischaemic penumbra are discussed. While focusing 
on potentially new avenues of treatment, the issue of why many clinical stroke
trials have so far proved disappointing is addressed. This article provides a
framework that can be used to generate testable hypotheses and treatment
strategies that are linked to the appearance of specific pathophysiological
events within the ischaemic brain.


PMID: 10441299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1794. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):388-9.

On the role of NO in the thalamus.

Salt TE, Pape HC.


PMID: 10441296  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1795. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):375-7.

Recognition of slow processes in rhythmic networks.

Golowasch J(1), Manor Y, Nadim F.

Author information: 
(1)Volen Center for Complex Systems, Brandeis University, Waltham, MA 02454, USA.


PMID: 10441293  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1796. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Sep;22(9):373-4.

Tracking neural pathways with MRI.

Rye DB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30322,
USA.


PMID: 10441292  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1797. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):332-4.

Whence and whither cortex?

Butler AB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Krasnow Institute for Advanced Study and the Dept of Psychology, George Mason 
University, Fairfax, VA 22030, USA.


PMID: 10465725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1798. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):347.

Reply

Saper CB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02215, USA.


PMID: 10407449  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1799. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):346-7.

Reply

West MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, Institute of Anatomy, University of Aarhus, 8000 Aarhus 
C, Denmark.


PMID: 10407448  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1800. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):345-6.

Reply

West MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, Institute of Anatomy, University of Aarhus, 8000 Aarhus 
C, Denmark.


PMID: 10407417  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1801. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):331.

Kang tsou (1932-1999)

Mackie K(1), Walker JM.

Author information: 
(1)Dept Anesthesiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-6540, USA.


PMID: 10407414  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1802. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):345-6.

Design-based counting techniques: the real problems.

Schmitz C, Korr H, Heinsen H.


PMID: 10407447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1803. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):365-9.

Signalling through the JAK-STAT pathway in the developing brain.

Cattaneo E(1), Conti L, De-Fraja C.

Author information: 
(1)Elena Cattaneo, Luciano Conti and Claudio De-Fraja are at the Institute of
Pharmacological Sciences, University of Milano, 20133 Milano, Italy.

The JAK -STAT (Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription)
signalling pathway that is stimulated by cytokines has been much investigated in 
haematopoietic cells, but recent data indicate that this pathway is also present 
and active during neuronal and glial differentiation. Furthermore, it is now
clear that growth factors other than the classical cytokines can act through this
pathway and that physiological inhibitors of this signalling cascade exist. Thus,
the JAKs, the STATs and their specific inhibitors could be molecules with
important roles in the CNS.


PMID: 10407422  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1804. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):357-64.

New prospects for human stem-cell therapy in the nervous system.

Svendsen CN(1), Smith AG.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Cambridge Centre for Brain Repair, University of Cambridge, UK CB2 2PY.

It would be of enormous benefit if human neural tissue could be generated in
vitro as this would allow screening for neuroactive compounds, and provide a
source of tissue for testing cellular and gene therapies for CNS disorders. It is
now well established that pluripotent embryonic stem cells (ES cells) from the
mouse can be propagated in culture and differentiated into a range of tissues,
including neuronal and glial cells. In other studies, more-restricted neural stem
cells have been isolated from both the developing and adult rodent brain. Current
reports now describe similar pluripotent and neural stem cells cultured from
human embryos. While the exact nature of these cells continues to be explored,
they can be grown for extended periods of time while retaining the capacity for
neuronal and glial differentiation. In some cases, they have been shown to
integrate into the developing or damaged adult brain. This article reviews their 
biology, with a focus on the possible links between ES-cell and neural stem-cell 
technologies, and the strategies used to isolate and expand defined cell
populations.


PMID: 10407421  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1805. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):348-57.

Marrow-mindedness: a perspective on neuropoiesis.

Scheffler B(1), Horn M, Blumcke I, Laywell ED, Coomes D, Kukekov VG, Steindler
DA.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Tennessee, Memphis, TN 38163, 
USA.

There are pluripotent stem cells in the adult brain that might not be very
different from those found in bone marrow. Recent and profound advances in the
field of neuropoiesis, which often rely on insights from studies of hematopoiesis
and in some instances use cross-paradigms with this field, have already revealed 
that bone marrow has much in common with so-called 'brain marrow'. Proliferative 
primogenitors and developmentally regulated molecules are hallmarks of both
neuropoiesis and hematopoiesis. This article will focus on recent advances in
neuropoiesis within a central core of the mature brain that is referred to as
brain marrow, discussing its pluripotency and proliferative capacity, in vitro
and molecular assays used in its study, and markers of neuropoietic
stem/progenitor cells. As hematopoiesis research has led to the discovery of
numerous morphogenetic factors, it is anticipated that studies of neuropoiesis
should also uncover many new factors and genes that affect the growth and
differentiation of neural cells. Recent breakthroughs in the stem-cell field
prompt an inclusion of rationale for the persistence of normal stem/progenitor
cells even in the aged brain. By analogy with hematopoiesis research, a thorough 
investigation of brain marrow should provide basic insights into developmental
and persistent neurogenesis while anticipating cell-transplant and gene therapies
for debilitating neurological diseases.


PMID: 10407420  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1806. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):347.

Crustacean studies and the early history of GABA.

Edwards DH, Heitler WJ, Krasne FB.


PMID: 10407419  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1807. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):346-7.

Unbiased stereology?

Hedreen JC.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):51-61.


PMID: 10407418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1808. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):337-45.

Coherent oscillations and short-term plasticity in corticothalamic networks.

Steriade M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurophysiologie, Faculté de Médecine, Université Laval,
Québec, Canada G1K 7P4.

The neocortex and thalamus are a unified oscillatory machine. Different types of 
brain rhythms, which characterize various behavioral states, are combined within 
complex wave-sequences. During the stage of sleep that is associated with
low-frequency and high-amplitude brain rhythms, the excitatory component of a
cortically generated slow oscillation is effective in triggering thalamically
generated rhythms and in increasing their spatiotemporal coherence over
widespread territories. Thus, the study of coherent oscillations, as they appear 
naturally during states of vigilance in animals and humans, requires intact-brain
preparations in which the neocortex and thalamus engage in a permanent dialog.
Sleep oscillations are associated with rhythmic spike-bursts or spike-trains in
thalamic and cortical neurons, which lead to persistent excitability changes
consisting of increased depolarizing responses and decreased inhibitory
responses. These short-term plasticity processes could be used to consolidate
memory traces acquired during wakefulness, but can also lead to paroxysmal
(hypersynchronous) episodes, similar to those observed in some epileptic
seizures.


PMID: 10407416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1809. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):334-7.

Fatty acids, diacylglycerol, Ins(1,4,5)P3 receptors and Ca2+ influx.

Kiselyov K(1), Muallem S.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, University of Texas, Southwestern Medical Center at
Dallas, Dallas, TX 75235, USA.


PMID: 10407415  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1810. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):285-7.

Matrix metalloproteinases and their inhibitors in the nervous system: the good,
the bad and the enigmatic.

Campbell IL(1), Pagenstecher A.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuropharmacology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037,
USA.


PMID: 10484748  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1811. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):300-2.

Tapping artificially into natural talents.

Sarter M, Berntson GG.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):47-51.


PMID: 10370269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1812. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):303-9.

Gauging sensory representations in the brain.

Buracas GT(1), Albright TD.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, CA 92037, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):543.

The stream of information that enters a sensory system is a product of the
ecological niche of an organism and the way in which the information is sampled. 
The most salient characteristic of this sensory stream is the rich temporal
structure that is caused by changes in the environment and self motion of sensors
(for example, rapid eye or whisker movements). In recent years, substantial
progress has been made in understanding how such rapidly varying stimuli are
represented in the responses of sensory neurons of a large variety of sensory
systems. The crucial observation that has emerged from these studies is that
individual action potentials convey substantial amounts of information, which
permits the discrimination of rapidly varying stimuli with high temporal
precision.


PMID: 10370254  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1813. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):300; author reply 301-2.

Not only how, but also what and why.

Steckler T.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):47-51.


PMID: 10370251  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1814. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):321-6.

Patterning motoneurons in the vertebrate nervous system.

Eisen JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR 97403, USA.

Vertebrate motoneurons show considerable diversity in their soma locations,
axonal trajectories and innervation targets. Results from studies of a variety of
vertebrate species as well as fruit-flies are elucidating the mechanisms by which
this diversity is generated. Motoneuron subpopulations appear to be defined by
combinations of transcription factor genes expressed in distinct spatiotemporal
patterns in both motoneuron progenitors and postmitotic motoneurons.
Notochord-derived signals can induce motoneuron formation,
paraxial-mesoderm-derived signals can pattern motoneuron subpopulations along the
rostrocaudal body axis, and local signals within the neural tube can regulate the
number and time at which motoneurons form. Additional, later signals can promote 
formation of proper central circuitry and motoneuron survival. The identification
of the genes and signals responsible for regulating these processes should help
to provide a more-detailed understanding of motoneuron patterning.


PMID: 10370257  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1815. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):316-20.

CART peptides: novel addiction- and feeding-related neuropeptides.

Kuhar MJ(1), Dall Vechia SE.

Author information: 
(1)Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center of Emory University, Atlanta, GA
30329, USA.

CART peptides are novel, putative brain-gut neurotransmitters and co-transmitters
that probably have a role in drug abuse, the control of feeding behavior, sensory
processing, stress and development. They are abundant, processed and apparently
released. Exogenously applied peptides cause inhibition of feeding and have
neurotrophic properties. Although the precise sequences, relative abundance and
efficacy of all CART peptides are currently being determined, small molecules
that are active at putative CART receptors could have substantial therapeutic
promise.


PMID: 10370256  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1816. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):310-6.

The retrosplenial cortex and emotion: new insights from functional neuroimaging
of the human brain.

Maddock RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychiatry and Center for Neuroscience, University of California
Davis, Davis, CA 95817, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2000 May;23(5):195-7.

Little is known about the function of the retrosplenial cortex and until
recently, there was no evidence that it had any involvement in emotional
processes. Surprisingly, recent functional neuroimaging studies show that the
retrosplenial cortex is consistently activated by emotionally salient words. A
review of the functional neuroimaging literature reveals a previously overlooked 
pattern of observations: the retrosplenial cortex is the cortical region most
consistently activated by emotionally salient stimuli. Evidence that this region 
is also involved in episodic memory suggests that it might have a role in the
interaction between emotion and episodic memory. Recognition that the
retrosplenial cortex has a prominent role in the processing of emotionally
salient stimuli invites further studies to define its specific functions and its 
interactions with other emotion-related brain regions.


PMID: 10370255  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1817. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):302.

Corrigendum.

Walro JM, Kucera J.


PMID: 10370253  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1818. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):301-302.

Reply.

Gerlai R(1), Clayton NS.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Dept, GENENTECH, South San Francisco, CA 94080-4990, USA.


PMID: 10370252  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1819. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):295-9.

Innate and adaptive immune responses can be beneficial for CNS repair.

Schwartz M(1), Moalem G, Leibowitz-Amit R, Cohen IR.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, The Weizmann Institute of Science, 76100 Rehovot,
Israel.

The limitation of immune responsiveness in the mammalian CNS has been attributed 
to the intricate nature of neuronal networks, which would appear to be more
susceptible than other tissues to the threat of permanent disorganization when
exposed to massive inflammation. This line of logic led to the conclusion that
all forms of CNS inflammation would do more harm than good and, hence, the less
immune intervention the better. However, mounting evidence indicates that some
forms of immune-system intervention can help to protect or restore CNS integrity.
We have shown that the innate immune system, represented by activated
macrophages, can facilitate the processes of regeneration in the severed spinal
cord. More recently, we found that autoimmune T cells that are specific for a
component of myelin can protect CNS neurons from the catastrophic secondary
degeneration, which extends traumatic lesions to adjacent CNS areas that did not 
suffer direct damage. The challenge, therefore, is to learn how to modify immune 
interactions in the traumatized CNS in order to promote its post-injury
maintenance and repair.


PMID: 10370250  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1820. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):290-5.

Cytoskeletal dynamics in dendritic spines: direct modulation by glutamate
receptors?

van Rossum D(1), Hanisch UK.

Author information: 
(1)Max Delbrück Centre for Molecular Medicine, 13092 Berlin-Buch, Germany.

A wide heterogeneity in dendritic-spine morphology is observed and
ultrastructural changes can be induced following experimental stimulation of
neurons. Morphological adaptation of a given spine might, thus, reflect its
history or the current state of synaptic activity. These changes could
conceivably result from rearrangements of the cytoskeleton that is subjacent to
excitatory synapses. This article dicusses the direct and indirect interactions, 
between glutamate receptors and the cytoskeletal proteins, which include
PDZ-containing proteins, actin and tubulin, as well as associated proteins. In
fact, the synaptic-activity-controlled balancing of monomeric, dimeric and
polymeric forms of actin and tubulin might underlie the changes in spine shape.
These continuous adaptations could be relevant for physiological events, such as 
learning and the formation of memory.


PMID: 10370249  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1821. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):287-90.

Evidence for multi-functional interactions in early visual motion processing.

Giese MA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Biological and Computational Learning, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307, USA.


PMID: 10370248  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1822. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):273-80.

Acetylcholine in mind: a neurotransmitter correlate of consciousness?

Perry E(1), Walker M, Grace J, Perry R.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Neurochemical Pathology Unit, Newcastle General Hospital, Westgate Road,
Newcastle upon Tyne, UK NE4 6BE.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):540-1.
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Dec;22(12):541-3.

The cholinergic system is one of the most important modulatory neurotransmitter
systems in the brain and controls activities that depend on selective attention, 
which are an essential component of conscious awareness. Psychopharmacological
and pathological evidence supports the concept of a 'cholinergic component' of
conscious awareness. Drugs that antagonize muscarinic receptors induce
hallucinations and reduce the level of consciousness, while the nicotinic
receptor is implicated as being involved in the mechanism of action of general
(inhalational) anaesthetics. In degenerative diseases of the brain, alterations
in consciousness are associated with regional deficits in the cholinergic system.
In Alzheimer's disease (AD), there is a loss of explicit (more than implicit)
memory and hypoactivity of cholinergic projections to the hippocampus and cortex,
while the visual hallucinations experienced by subjects with Dementia with Lewy
bodies (DLB) are associated with reductions in neocortical ACh-related activity. 
In Parkinson's disease, the additional loss of pedunculopontine cholinergic
neurones, which control REM (rapid eye movement) sleep or dreaming, is likely to 
contribute to REM abnormalities, which also occur in DLB. Widespread
basal-forebrain and rostral brainstem cholinergic pathways, which include
converging projections to the thalamus, appear to be located strategically for
generating and integrating conscious awareness. Alleviation of a range of
cognitive and non-cognitive symptoms by drugs that modulate the cholinergic
system, which are being developed for the treatment of AD and related disorders, 
could be caused by changes in consciousness.


PMID: 10354606  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1823. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):256.

Tagging the hebb synapse: reply

Morris RG(1), Frey U.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Neuroscience, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK EH8 9LE.


PMID: 10354602  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1824. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):269-73.

Factors intrinsic to the neuron can induce and maintain its ability to promote
axonal outgrowth: a role for BCL2?

Holm K(1), Isacson O.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroregeneration Laboratory, Harvard Medical School, Program in Neuroscience,
McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA 02178-9106, USA.

The adult CNS provides a poor environment for axonal growth and regeneration. The
question of to what extent the loss of axonal growth occurring as the brain
matures is dependent on factors intrinsic or extrinsic to the growing neuron is
still unanswered. Examination of axonal growth from neural transplants provides
insight into the roles of growth factors, inhibitory molecules, growth-promoting 
substrates and the differences between CNS and PNS environments in the regulation
of neurite extension. The data that imply a role for BCL2 and related molecules
in such processes are reviewed in this article, which analyzes the factors
intrinsic to the neuron that control its capacity for axonal growth.


PMID: 10354605  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1825. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):263-9.

Development of the vertebrate ear: insights from knockouts and mutants.

Fekete DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biological Sciences, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN 47907, USA.

The three divisions of the ear (outer, middle and inner) each have an important
role in hearing, while the inner ear is also crucial for the sense of balance.
How these three major components arise and coalesce to form the peripheral
elements of the senses of hearing and balance is now being studied using
molecular-genetic approaches. This article summarizes data from studies of
knockout and mutant animals in which one or more divisions of the ear are
abnormal. The data confirm that development of all three divisions of the ear
depends on the genes involved in hindbrain segmentation and segment identity.
Genes that are regionally expressed in the inner ear can, when absent or mutated,
yield selective ablation of specific inner-ear structures or cell types.


PMID: 10354604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1826. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):257-63.

FAK and PYK2/CAKbeta in the nervous system: a link between neuronal activity,
plasticity and survival?

Girault JA(1), Costa A, Derkinderen P, Studler JM, Toutant M.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U114, Collège de France, 75005 Paris, France.

A major aim of neurobiology today is to improve understanding of the signaling
pathways that couple rapid events, such as the action potential and
neurotransmitter release, to long-lasting changes in synaptic strength and
increased neuronal survival. These adaptations involve interactions of neurons
with other cells and with the extracellular matrix. They use, in part, the same
molecular machinery that controls adhesion, motility or survival in non-neuronal 
cells. This machinery includes two homologous non-receptor tyrosine kinases, FAK 
and PYK2/CAKbeta, and the associated SRC-family tyrosine kinases. Specific brain 
isoforms of FAK with distinct properties are regulated by neurotransmitters,
whereas PYK2/CAKbeta is highly sensitive to depolarization. The multiplicity of
the pathways that can be activated by these tyrosine kinases indicates their
importance in signal transduction in the adult brain.


PMID: 10354603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1827. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):255-6.

Tagging the Hebb synapse.

Routtenberg A.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):181-8.


PMID: 10354601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1828. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):248-55.

Recent advances in understanding the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease.

Reddy PH(1), Williams M, Tagle DA.

Author information: 
(1)Genetics and Molecular Biology Branch, National Human Genome Research
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal, dominantly inherited neurodegenerative
disorder that is characterized by abnormal involuntary movements (chorea),
intellectual impairment and selective neuronal loss. The expansion of a
polymorphic trinucleotide repeat (the sequence CAG that codes for glutamine) to a
length that exceeds 40 repeat units in exon 1 of the gene, HD, correlates with
the onset and progression of the disease. The protein encoded by HD, huntingtin, 
is normally localized in the cytoplasm, whereas the mutant protein is also found 
in the nucleus, suggesting that its translocation to this site is important for
the pathogenesis of HD. Although several proteins that interact with huntingtin
have been identified in vitro, the significance of these interactions with the
mutant protein in the pathogenesis of HD has yet to be determined. Recent
progress in the development of cellular and animal models for the disease have
provided invaluable insights and resources for studying the disease mechanisms
underlying HD, and will be useful for screening and evaluating possible
therapeutic strategies.


PMID: 10354600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1829. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):242-8.

The evolution of visual cortex: where is V2?

Rosa MG(1), Krubitzer LA.

Author information: 
(1)Vision, Touch and Hearing Research Centre, Dept of Physiology and
Pharmacology, The University of Queensland, QLD 4072, Australia.

A comparative analysis of the area of the cortex that is adjacent to the primary 
visual area (V1), indicates that the lateral extrastriate cortex of primitive
mammals was likely to contain only a single visuotopically organized field, the
second visual area (V2). Few, if any, other visual areas existed. The opposing
hypothesis, that primitive mammals had a 'string' of small visual areas in the
cortex lateral to V1 (as in some rodents), is not supported by studies of the
organization of extrastriate cortex in other mammals, nor by the variability in
this organization among extant rodents. A critical re-analysis of published
evidence on the presence of multiple areas adjacent to V1 in some rodents has led
to alternative interpretations of the organization of the areas in these regions.


PMID: 10354599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1830. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):237-42.

Vectors, routes and maps: new discoveries about navigation in insects.

Giurfa M(1), Capaldi EA.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Neurobiologie, Freie Universität Berlin, 14195 Berlin, Germany.


PMID: 10354598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1831. Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):207.

What is the amygdala? A comparative approach

Lanuza E(1), Mart nez-Marcos A, Mart nez-Garc a F.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, NY 10012, USA.


PMID: 10323756  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1832. Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):215-20.

Seeing what is coming: building collision-sensitive neurones.

Rind FC(1), Simmons PJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Dept, School of Neurosciences and Psychiatry, University of
Newcastle upon Tyne, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK NE2 4HH.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):436-7; author reply 438.
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Oct;22(10):437-8.

The image of a rapidly approaching object has to elicit a quick response. An
animal needs to know that the object is approaching on a collision course and how
imminent a collision is. The relevant information can be computed from the way
that the image of the object grows on the retina of one eye. Firm data about the 
types of neurones that react to such looming stimuli and trigger avoidance
reactions come from recent studies on the pigeon and the locust. The neurones
responsible are tightly tuned to detect objects that are approaching on a direct 
collision course. In the pigeon these neurones signal the time remaining before
collision whereas in the locust they have a crucial role in the simple strategy
this animal uses to detect an object approaching on a collision course.


PMID: 10322494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1833. Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):193.

Online access to NEUROSCIENCES

[No authors listed]


PMID: 10322489  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1834. Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):228-35.

Glutamatergic synapses onto hippocampal interneurons: precision timing without
lasting plasticity.

McBain CJ(1), Freund TF, Mody I.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Neurophysiology, NICHD, Bethesda, MD
20892-4495, USA.

In the hippocampal formation GABAergic inhibitory interneurons have a major role 
in the synchronization of neuronal activity and are involved in the generation of
large-scale network oscillations. Thus, interneurons function as a 'clock' that
dictates when principal cells fire during suprathreshold excitatory drive.
Interneurons receive strong excitatory innervation from glutamatergic neurons and
it has been much debated whether these synapses show mechanisms of long-term
plasticity similar to those found at principal-cell synapses. Recent findings
support the lack of conventional forms of LTP and LTD in most interneurons,
partly owing to the distinct anatomical and neurochemical features of
interneuronal excitatory synapses. The uncommon properties of excitatory synapses
on interneurons might be required for their functioning as accurate and reliable 
neuronal oscillators.


PMID: 10322496  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1835. Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):221-7.

Homeostatic plasticity in neuronal networks: the more things change, the more
they stay the same.

Turrigiano GG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology and Center for Complex Systems, Brandeis University, Waltham, 
MA 02454, USA.

During learning and development, neural circuitry is refined, in part, through
changes in the number and strength of synapses. Most studies of long-term changes
in synaptic strength have concentrated on Hebbian mechanisms, where these changes
occur in a synapse-specific manner. While Hebbian mechanisms are important for
modifying neuronal circuitry selectively, they might not be sufficient because
they tend to destabilize the activity of neuronal networks. Recently, several
forms of homeostatic plasticity that stabilize the properties of neural circuits 
have been identified. These include mechanisms that regulate neuronal
excitability, stabilize total synaptic strength, and influence the rate and
extent of synapse formation. These forms of homeostatic plasticity are likely to 
go 'hand-in-glove' with Hebbian mechanisms to allow experience to modify the
properties of neuronal networks selectively.


PMID: 10322495  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1836. Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):208-15.

Tripartite synapses: glia, the unacknowledged partner.

Araque A(1), Parpura V, Sanzgiri RP, Haydon PG.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Signaling, Dept of Zoology and Genetics, Iowa State
University, Ames, IA 50011, USA.

According to the classical view of the nervous system, the numerically superior
glial cells have inferior roles in that they provide an ideal environment for
neuronal-cell function. However, there is a wave of new information suggesting
that glia are intimately involved in the active control of neuronal activity and 
synaptic neurotransmission. Recent evidence shows that glia respond to neuronal
activity with an elevation of their internal Ca2+ concentration, which triggers
the release of chemical transmitters from glia themselves and, in turn, causes
feedback regulation of neuronal activity and synaptic strength. In view of these 
new insights, this article suggests that perisynaptic Schwann cells and
synaptically associated astrocytes should be viewed as integral modulatory
elements of tripartite synapses.


PMID: 10322493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1837. Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):207-8.

What is the amygdala? A comparative approach.

Lanuza E, Martínez-Marcos A, Martínez-García F.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):323-31.


PMID: 10322492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1838. Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):197-207.

Bridging cognition, the brain and molecular genetics: evidence from Williams
syndrome.

Bellugi U(1), Lichtenberger L, Mills D, Galaburda A, Korenberg JR.

Author information: 
(1)The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA.

Williams syndrome (WMS) is a rare sporadic disorder that yields a distinctive
profile of medical, cognitive, neurophysiological, neuroanatomical and genetic
characteristics. The cognitive hallmark of WMS is a dissociation between language
and face processing (relative strengths) and spatial cognition (profound
impairment). Individuals with WMS also tend to be overly social, behavior that is
opposite to that seen in autism. A genetic hallmark of WMS is a deletion on
chromosome band 7q11.23. Williams syndrome is also associated with specific
neuromorphological and neurophysiological profiles: proportional sparing of
frontal, limbic and neocerebellar structures is seen using MRI; and abnormal
functional organization of the neural systems that underlie both language and
face processing is revealed through studies using event-related potentials. The
non-uniformity in the cognitive, neuromorphological and neurophysiological
domains of WMS make it a compelling model for elucidating the relationships
between cognition, the brain and, ultimately, the genes.


PMID: 10322491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1839. Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):194-7.

Aggregates in neurodegenerative disease: crowds and power?

Tran PB(1), Miller RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacological and Physiological Sciences, The University of Chicago,
Chicago, IL 60637, USA.


PMID: 10322490  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1840. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Apr;22(4):152.

From grasping to speech: imitation might provide a missing link: reply

Rizzolatti G(1), Arbib MA.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Fisiologia Umana, Universita degli Studi di Parma, Parma 43100,
Italy.


PMID: 10203851  [PubMed - as supplied by publisher]


1841. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Apr;22(4):180-4.

Why adult mammalian intrafusal and extrafusal fibers contain different myosin
heavy-chain isoforms.

Walro JM(1), Kucera J.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy, Northeastern Ohio Universities College of Medicine,
Rootstown, OH 44272-0095, USA.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 1999 Jul;22(7):302.

Multiple isoforms of the contractile protein myosin are present in mammalian
skeletal muscles. The diversity of the heavy-chain subunits of myosin (MyHCs) in 
intrafusal fibers is thought to reflect a pathway of differentiation that is
unique to muscle spindles. In fact, intrafusal MyHCs are developmental isoforms
expressed by the prenatal precursors of both intrafusal and extrafusal fibers. In
adult limbs, developmental MyHCs persist in intrafusal, but not extrafusal fibers
principally due to the afferent neurons that arrest their maturational
replacement by MyHCs associated with faster shortening velocities. The slow
shortening velocities that are characteristic of developmental MyHCs might be
adaptive for precise calibration of muscle spindles as sense organs.


PMID: 10203856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1842. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Apr;22(4):173-9.

Identifying genes for alcohol and drug sensitivity: recent progress and future
directions.

Crabbe JC(1), Phillips TJ, Buck KJ, Cunningham CL, Belknap JK.

Author information: 
(1)Portland Alcohol Research Center, the Veterans Affairs Medical Center and the 
Dept of Behavioral Neuroscience, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland, OR 
97201, USA.

New methods for identifying chromosomal regions containing genes that affect
murine responses to alcohol and drugs have been used to identify many provisional
quantitative trait loci (QTLs) since 1991. By 1998, 24 QTLs had been definitively
mapped (P<5x10(-5)) to specific murine chromosomes, which indicates the presence 
of a relevant gene or genes at each location. The syntenic (homologous) region of
the human genome for these genes is often known. For many mapped QTLs, candidate 
genes with relevant neurobiological function lie within the mapped region. Data
that implicate candidate genes for specific responses include studies of knockout
animals. Current strategies for gene identification include the use of congenic
strains containing QTL regions introduced from another strain. There is
increasing emphasis on gene-gene and gene-environment interactions in such
studies.


PMID: 10203855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1843. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Apr;22(4):167-73.

The EGR family of transcription-regulatory factors: progress at the interface of 
molecular and systems neuroscience.

O'Donovan KJ(1), Tourtellotte WG, Millbrandt J, Baraban JM.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
MD 21205, USA.

The EGR family of transcription regulatory factors, which is implicated in
orchestrating the changes in gene expression that underlie neuronal plasticity,
has attracted the attention of both molecular and systems neuroscientists. In
this article, the advances made in both these fields of research are reviewed.
Recent systems-based studies underscore the remarkable sensitivity and
specificity of the induction of the expression of genes encoding EGR-family
members in naturally occurring plasticity paradigms. However, they also challenge
conventional views of the role of this family in plasticity. Recent molecular
studies have identified the gonadotropin subunit, luteinizing hormone beta, as an
EGR1-regulated gene in vivo and uncovered an essential role for EGR3 in
muscle-spindle development. In addition, the discovery of novel proteins that are
capable of suppressing EGR-mediated transcription cast doubt over the prevalent
assumption that changes in EGR mRNA or protein levels provide an accurate measure
of EGR-driven transcriptional activity.


PMID: 10203854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1844. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Apr;22(4):161-6.

Calcium transients and neurotransmitter release at an identified synapse.

Fossier P(1), Tauc L, Baux G.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie cellulaire et moléculaire C.N.R.S., 91198 Gif sur
Yvette cedex, France.

It is widely accepted that the modulation of the presynaptic Ca2+ influx is one
of the main mechanisms by which neurotransmitter release can be controlled. The
well-identified cholinergic synapse in the buccal ganglion of Aplysia has been
used to study the modulations that affect presynaptic Ca2+ transients and to
relate this to quantal evoked neurotransmitter release. Three types of Ca2+
channel (L, N and P) are present in the presynaptic neurone at this synapse.
Influxes of Ca2+ through N- and P-type channels trigger the release of ACh with
only N-type Ca2+ channels being regulated by presynaptic neuromodulator
receptors. In addition, presynaptic Ca2+ stores, via complex mechanisms of Ca2+
uptake and Ca2+ release, control the Ca2+ concentration that triggers this evoked
ACh release.


PMID: 10203853  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1845. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Apr;22(4):153-61.

Fifty years of a command neuron: the neurobiology of escape behavior in the
crayfish.

Edwards DH(1), Heitler WJ, Krasne FB.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology, Georgia State University, Atlanta, GA, USA.

Fifty years ago C.A.G. Wiersma established that the giant axons of the crayfish
nerve cord drive tail-flip escape responses. The circuitry that includes these
giant neurons has now become one of the best-understood neural circuits in the
animal kingdom. Although it controls a specialized behavior of a relatively
simple animal, this circuitry has provided insights that are of general
neurobiological interest concerning matters as diverse as the identity of the
neural substrates involved in making behavioral decisions, the cellular bases of 
learning, subcellular neuronal computation, voltage-gated electrical synaptic
transmission and modification of neuromodulator actions that result from social
experience. This work illustrates the value of studying a circuit of moderate,
but tractable, complexity and known behavioral function.


PMID: 10203852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1846. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Apr;22(4):151-2.

From grasping to speech: imitation might provide a missing link.

Miklósi A.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):188-94.


PMID: 10203850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1847. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Apr;22(4):146-51.

Is the short-latency dopamine response too short to signal reward error?

Redgrave P(1), Prescott TJ, Gurney K.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK S10 2TP.

Unexpected stimuli that are behaviourally significant have the capacity to elicit
a short-latency, short-duration burst of firing in mesencephalic dopaminergic
neurones. An influential interpretation of the experimental data that
characterize this response proposes that dopaminergic neurones have a crucial
role in reinforcement learning because they signal error in the prediction of
future reward. In this article we propose a different functional role for this
'short-latency dopamine response' in the mechanisms that underlie associative
learning. We suggest that the initial burst of dopaminergic-neurone firing could 
represent an essential component in the process of switching attentional and
behavioural selections to unexpected, behaviourally important stimuli. This
switching response could be a crucial prerequisite for associative learning and
might be part of a general short-latency response that is mediated by
catecholamines and prepares the organism for an appropriate reaction to
biologically significant events. Any act which in a given situation produces
satisfaction becomes associated with that situation so that when the situation
recurs the act is more likely than before to recur also. E.L. Thorndike (1911) 1.


PMID: 10203849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1848. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Apr;22(4):143-5.

Signals that go with the flow.

Nicholson C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology and Neuroscience, NYU Medical School, New York, NY 10016,
USA.


PMID: 10203848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1849. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):122-7.

Does the right side know what the left is doing?

Koltzenburg M(1), Wall PD, McMahon SB.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, University of Würzburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):495-6.
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):496-7.

Following peripheral-nerve lesions there are well-documented events that affect
the contralateral nonlesioned structures. These contralateral effects are
qualitatively similar to those occurring at the ipsilateral side, but are usually
smaller in magnitude and have a briefer time course. It is unclear whether the
findings are an epiphenomenon or serve a biological purpose, but in either case
the existence of these effects implies the presence of unrecognized signalling
mechanisms that link the two sides of the body. Strong circumstantial evidence
argues against a peripheral mechanism (for example, via circulating factors) and 
in favour of a central mechanism, in particular signalling via the system of
commissural interneurons that is present in spinal cord and brainstem. While an
altered pattern of activity in this system might underlie the phenomenon, there
are several reasons for proposing that the changes depend upon chemical signals, 
possibly growth factors. Because of its relative easy access for experimental
manipulation, the spinal cord could serve as a model system to study these
transmedian signalling systems.


PMID: 10199637  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1850. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):135-9.

Where the abstract feature maps of the brain might come from.

Kohonen T(1), Hari R.

Author information: 
(1)Neural Networks Research Centre, Helsinki University of Technology, Espoo,
Finland.

Three types of neuronal organization can be called 'brain maps': sets of
feature-sensitive cells, ordered projections between neuronal layers and ordered 
maps of abstract features. The latter are most intriguing as they reflect the
central properties of an organism's experiences and environment. It is proposed
that such feature maps are learned in a process that involves parallel input to
neurons in a brain area and adaptation of neurons in the neighborhood of the
cells that respond most strongly to this input. This article presents a new
mathematical formulation for such adaptation and relates it to physiological
functions.


PMID: 10199639  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1851. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):128-35.

Maps versus clusters: different representations of auditory space in the midbrain
and forebrain.

Cohen YE(1), Knudsen EI.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, Dartmouth College, Hannover, NH 03755-3549, USA.

The auditory system determines the location of stimuli based on the evaluation of
specific cues. The analysis begins in the tonotopic pathway, where these cues are
processed in parallel, frequency-specific channels. This frequency-specific
information is processed further in the midbrain and in the forebrain by
specialized, space-processing pathways that integrate information across
frequency channels, creating high-order neurons tuned to specific locations in
space. Remarkably, the results of this integrative step are represented very
differently in the midbrain and forebrain: in the midbrain, space is represented 
in maps, whereas, in the forebrain, space is represented in clusters of similarly
tuned neurons. We propose that these different representations reflect the
different roles that these two brain areas have in guiding behavior.


PMID: 10199638  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1852. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):116-22.

The TINS Lecture. Understanding the roles of Otx1 and Otx2 in the control of
brain morphogenesis.

Acampora D(1), Simeone A.

Author information: 
(1)International Institute of Genetics and Biophysics, CNR, Naples, Italy.

The murine homologs of the orthodenticle (otd) gene of Drosophila, Otx1 and Otx2,
have an important role in brain morphogenesis. Analysis of Otx1 and Otx2 null
mice reveals that Otx1 is required primarily for corticogenesis and sense-organ
development,while Otx2 is necessary for specification and maintenance of anterior
neural plate as well as for proper gastrulation. Cross-phylum recoveries of Otx1 
abnormalities by Drosophila otd, and vice versa, indicate that genetic functions 
required in mammalian-brain development evolved in a primitive ancestor of flies 
and mice. Knock-in mouse models in which Otx2 was replaced with Otx1, and vice
versa, provide evidence that the existence of Otx1-/- and Otx2-/- divergent
phenotypes largely reflects differences in expression patterns rather than in the
biochemical activity of OTX1 and OTX2. In evolutionary terms, some of these
findings lead us to hypothesize a fascinating and crucial role for Otx genes that
contributes to the genetic program required for the specification of the
development of the vertebrate head.


PMID: 10199636  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1853. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):109-16.

Sight and insight--on the physiological role of nitric oxide in the visual
system.

Cudeiro J(1), Rivadulla C.

Author information: 
(1)E.U. Fisioterapia, Universidade Da Coruña, Centro Universitario de Oza, Spain.

Research in the fields of cellular communication and signal transduction in the
brain has moved very rapidly in recent years. Nitric oxide (NO) is one of the
latest discoveries in the arena of messenger molecules. Current evidence
indicates that, in visual system, NO is produced in both postsynaptic and
presynaptic structures and acts as a neurotransmitter, albeit of a rather
unorthodox type. Under certain conditions it can switch roles to become either
neuronal 'friend' or 'foe'. Nitric oxide is a gas that diffuses through all
physiological barriers to act on neighbouring cells across an extensive volume on
a specific time scale. It, therefore,has the opportunity to control the
processing of vision from the lowest level of retinal transduction to the control
of neuronal excitability in the visual cortex.


PMID: 10199635  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1854. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):108-9.

Neurotrophic factors.

Vrbová G, Greensmith L, Nógrádi A.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Oct;21(10):433-7.
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Oct;21(10):438-44.


PMID: 10199634  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1855. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):102-8.

Characterizing complex chemosensors: information-theoretic analysis of olfactory 
systems.

Alkasab TK(1), Bozza TC, Cleland TA, Dorries KM, Pearce TC, White J, Kauer JS.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, MA 02111,
USA.

The mechanisms that underlie a wine lover's ability to identify a favorite
vintage and a dog's ability to track the scent of a lost child are still deep
mysteries. Our understanding of these olfactory phenomena is confounded by the
difficulty encountered when attempting to identify the parameters that define
odor stimuli, by the broad tuning and variability of neurons in the olfactory
pathway,and by the distributed nature of olfactory encoding. These issues pertain
to both biological systems and to newly developed 'artificial noses' that seek to
mimic these natural processes. Information theory, which quantifies explicitly
the extent to which the state of one system (for example, the universe of all
odors) relates to the state of another (for example, the responses of an
odor-sensing device),can serve as a basis for analysing both natural and
engineered odor sensors. This analytical approach can be used to explore the
problems of defining stimulus dimensions, assessing strategies of neuronal
processing, and examining the properties of biological systems that emerge from
interactions among their complex components. It can also serve to optimize the
design of artificial olfactory devices for a variety of applications, which
include process control, medical diagnostics and the detection of explosives.


PMID: 10199633  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1856. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):100-2.

Using spontaneous and induced mutations to dissect brain and behavior
genetically.

Crusio WE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Transgénose, CNRS UPR 9074, Génétique, Neurogénétique et
Comportement, Orléans, France.


PMID: 10199632  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1857. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):97-9.

Heat-shock protein protection.

Sharp FR(1), Massa SM, Swanson RA.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, University of California at San Francisco and Dept of
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 94121, USA.


PMID: 10199631  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1858. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):47-51.

Analysing hippocampal function in transgenic mice: an ethological perspective.

Gerlai R(1), Clayton NS.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Dept, GENENTECH, South San Francisco, CA 94080-4990, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):300; author reply 301-2.
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jul;22(7):300-2.

Advances in molecular genetics and technology have led to the dawn of a new era
for neuroscience: manipulation of single genes now makes it possible to dissect
the complexities of neurobiological phenotypes and to understand many of the
intricacies of brain and behaviour, even in mammals. The phenotypical analysis of
these mutant animals is complicated because the potential outcome of gene
manipulation is difficult to predict. While behavioural analysis should form an
integral part of any multidisciplinary research programme investigating the
phenotypical effects of single genes on hippocampal function, it is crucial that 
the behavioural tests are designed and conducted appropriately. Approaches that
take species-specific behavioural characteristics into account and use
ethological methods could be the most useful for interpreting these behavioural
findings and understanding the biological mechanisms of brain function.


PMID: 10092042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1859. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):88-93.

Comparative biology of Ca2+-dependent exocytosis: implications of kinetic
diversity for secretory function.

Kasai H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tokyo, Hongo, Japan.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 2000 Jan;23(1):43.

The application of caged-Ca2+ compounds to the study of Ca2+-dependent exocytosis
has begun to reveal kinetic intermediates in this important process. The time
course of exocytosis varies greatly among different cell and vesicle types, even 
in response to Ca2+ 'jumps' of identical amplitude. The kinetics of the binding
of Ca2+ to the putative Ca2+ sensor for exocytosis also vary. Theoretical
analysis reveals that the kinetic diversity of exocytotic and Ca2+-binding
reactions has distinct roles in determining the probability of exocytosis
occurring. It is proposed that both of these reactions are optimized for the
secretory function of specific cell types and that the exocytotic reaction
includes vesicle translocation in addition to the fusion of vesicles with the
plasma membrane.


PMID: 10092049  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1860. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):81-8.

Multiple genes for neuropeptides and their receptors: co-evolution and
physiology.

Darlison MG(1), Richter D.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Zellbiochemie und Klinische Neurobiologie, Universitäts-klinikum 
Hamburg-Eppendorf Universität Hamburg, Germany.

It is now well established that neuropeptide receptors, which are present
throughout the CNS and in peripheral tissues, frequently exist in a variety of
different forms (called subtypes), each of which is encoded by a distinct gene.
With the recent identification of new neuropeptide genes, it has become clear
that families of neuropeptides also occur, which raises the possibility that
specific peptide ligands activate particular receptor subtypes preferentially.
This article reviews some of the recent advances in the neuropeptide field and
provides evidence in support of three ideas: (1) that different receptor subtypes
for a given ligand can be distinguished physiologically; (2) that neuropeptide
genes probably arose before the corresponding receptor genes; and (3) that,
despite the current wealth of information on neuropeptides and neuropeptide
receptors, several new members are likely to be discovered before the beginning
of the next millennium.


PMID: 10092048  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1861. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):74-80.

Auditory cortical plasticity: a comparison with other sensory systems.

Rauschecker JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Georgetown Institute for Cognitive and Computational Sciences, Washington, DC 
20007, USA.

The auditory cortex has a crucial role in higher cognitive functions, including
the perception of speech, music and auditory space. Cortical plasticity, as in
other sensory systems, is used in the fine tuning of the auditory system for
these higher functions. Auditory cortical plasticity can also be demonstrated
after lesions of the cochlea and it appears to participate in generating
tinnitus. Early musical training leads to an expansion in the representation of
complex harmonic sounds in the auditory cortex. Similarly, the early phonetic
environment has a strong influence on speech development and, presumably, on the 
cortical organization of speech. In auditory spatial perception, the spectral
cues generated by the head and outer ears vary between individuals and have to be
calibrated by learning, which most probably takes place at the cortical level.
The neural mechanisms of plasticity are likely to be the same across all cortical
regions. It should be useful, therefore, to relate some of the findings and
hypotheses about auditory cortical plasticity to previous studies of other
sensory systems.


PMID: 10092047  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1862. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):67-74.

Abnormal regulation of corticopetal cholinergic neurons and impaired information 
processing in neuropsychiatric disorders.

Sarter M(1), Bruno JP.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology and Neuroscience Program, The Ohio State University,
Columbus 43210, USA.

Cholinergic neurons originating in the basal forebrain innervate all cortical
areas and participate in the gating of cortical information processing.
Aberrations in the excitability of cortical cholinergic inputs fundamentally
alter the processing of sensory stimuli and higher processes, thereby advancing
the development of major neuropsychiatric disorders. Cortical cholinergic
deafferentation has been considered to be a major neuropathological variable that
contributes to the development of age- and dementia-associated impairments in
cognition. Conversely, it has been suggested that increases in the excitability
of cortical cholinergic inputs mediate the abnormal cognitive processes that
escalate into psychotic symptoms and contribute to addictive-drug-seeking
behavior, anxiety and phobia. Abnormal regulation of the excitability of cortical
cholinergic afferents represents a 'final common pathway' that mediates the
manifestation of major neuropsychiatric disorders.


PMID: 10092046  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1863. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):62-7.

Feeding and body-weight regulation by hypothalamic neuropeptides--mediation of
the actions of leptin.

Inui A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Second Dept of Internal Medicine, Kobe University School of Medicine, Japan.

Neuropeptides are essential for the regulation of appetite and body weight within
the hypothalamus. The understanding of the neuropeptide regulation of energy
homeostasis has been greatly advanced by the recent discovery of leptin, the
protein product of the obese gene (ob). Significant new insights into the
relationship between peripheral adiposity signals and their impact on the
hypothalamic neuropeptide signaling circuitry have provided some crucial missing 
links in the negative-feedback regulation of appetite and body weight. The
neuropeptide Y orexigenic network is a final common pathway for this signaling
cascade and, along with feeding-inhibitory neuropeptides such as melanocortin,
corticotropin-releasing factor and glucagon-like peptide 1, it is a major target 
through which leptin exerts a regulatory tonic restraint on body adiposity.


PMID: 10092045  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1864. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):61.

Molecular murder.

Wiley RG.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Oct;21(10):423-6.


PMID: 10092044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1865. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):51-61.

Stereological methods for estimating the total number of neurons and synapses:
issues of precision and bias.

West MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, Institute of Anatomy, University of Aarhus, Denmark.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Sep;24(9):504-6.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):377-80.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):376-7; author reply 378-80.
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):345-6.
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Aug;22(8):346-7.
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jul;24(7):374; author reply 378-80.

The emergence of a new generation of stereological techniques for counting
objects in histological sections has prompted a debate about whether or not these
methods are better than previously available techniques when they are used to
make estimates of the total numbers of neurons and synapses in a neural
structure. During this debate, the concepts of an unbiased estimate and that of a
precise estimate have often been confused. A full understanding of the
distinction between these two separate aspects of an estimate is required in
order to be able to appreciate the virtues of these new counting methods and to
apply them correctly. This review intends to make the fundamental issues of this 
debate more clear, and describes (1) the fundamental differences between the
newer design-based counting techniques and previously available assumption-based 
techniques, and (2) the distinction between an unbiased estimate and a precise
estimate.


PMID: 10092043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1866. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jan;22(1):38-44.

Is the Ras-MAPK signalling pathway necessary for long-term memory formation?

Orban PC(1), Chapman PF, Brambilla R.

Author information: 
(1)San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milano, Italy.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Nov;22(11):495.

Genetic and pharmacological experiments have recently implicated several protein 
kinase cascades in LTP and memory formation. The small GTPases of the Ras
subfamily are activated by multiple extracellular stimuli and, via a complex
array of downstream effectors, they control a variety of cellular events that
culminate in gene transcription. In the well-characterized Aplysia
gill-withdrawal reflex, activation of the Ras-dependent mitogen-activated protein
kinase (MAPK) cascade is essential for the long-term, but not the short-term,
facilitation process. In addition, in the rodent hippocampus, specific inhibition
of the MAPK pathway significantly impairs the induction of LTP, which implicates 
this signalling cascade in hippocampal-dependent behaviour. Mice that lack the
neuronal-specific Ras regulator, Ras-GRF (guanine-releasing factor), have
severely impaired LTP in the amygdala and a corresponding deficit in long-term
memory for aversive events. The results obtained from these different systems
demonstrate the involvement of Ras-dependent signalling in neuronal plasticity
and behaviour and raise a number of intriguing questions.


PMID: 10088998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1867. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jan;22(1):30-8.

The role of integrins in immune-mediated diseases of the nervous system.

Archelos JJ(1), Previtali SC, Hartung HP.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Karl-Franzens-Universität, Graz, Austria.

Immune-mediated diseases of the CNS and PNS, such as multiple sclerosis and
Guillain-Barré syndrome, respectively, constitute a major cause of transient and 
permanent neurological disability in the adult. The aetiology and pathogenesis of
these disorders are only partially understood. On a cellular level, focal
mononuclear-cell infiltration with demyelination and eventual axonal loss is a
crucial pathogenetic event that leads to inflammation and subsequent dysfunction.
Here, the evidence that integrins, a family of cell adhesion molecules, expressed
on neural and immune cells might play a central role in immune cell recruitment
to the CNS and PNS, and probably in tissue repair is reviewed. Distinct integrin 
expression patterns are observed in multiple sclerosis and Guillain-Barré
syndrome. Therapeutic targeting of integrins has been very successful in the
corresponding animal models and holds promise as a novel treatment strategy to
combat human immune-mediated disorders of the nervous system.


PMID: 10088997  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1868. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jan;22(1):25-30.

Neuropeptide Y: emerging evidence for a functional role in seizure modulation.

Vezzani A(1), Sperk G, Colmers WF.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, Mario Negri Institute for Pharmacological Research,
Milano, Italy.

The high concentration of the tyrosine-rich polypeptide, neuropeptide Y (NPY),
and the increase in the number of its receptor subtypes that have been
characterized in the brain, raise the question of a functional role for NPY in
the CNS. In addition to its peripheral actions on cardiovascular regulation, much
attention has, therefore, been devoted to the CNS effects of NPY because of its
stimulatory properties on food intake, its role in anxiolysis and its putative
involvement in memory retention. Emerging evidence points to an important role
for NPY in the regulation of neuronal activity both under physiological
conditions and during pathological hyperactivity such as that which occurs during
seizures. This article reviews recent studies that have shown the changes induced
by seizures in the level and distribution of NPY, its receptor subtypes and their
respective mRNAs in rat forebrain. Biochemical and electrophysiological findings 
in experimental models and tissue from human epilepsy sufferers suggest that
NPY-mediated neurotransmission is altered by seizures. The pharmacological
evidence and functional studies in NPY knockout mice highlight a crucial role for
endogenous NPY, acting on different NPY receptors, in the control of seizures.


PMID: 10088996  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1869. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jan;22(1):16-24.

Exploring the neurotransmitter labyrinth in nematodes.

Brownlee DJ(1), Fairweather I.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Southampton, UK.

Nematodes include both free-living species such as Caenorhabditis elegans and
major parasites of humans, livestock and plants. The apparent simplicity and
uniformity of their nervous system belies a rich diversity of putative signalling
molecules, particularly neuropeptides. This new appreciation stems largely from
the genome-sequencing project with C. elegans, which is due to be completed by
the end of 1998. The project has provided additional insights into other aspects 
of nematode neurobiology, as have studies on the mechanism of action of
anthelmintics. Here, progress on the identification, localization, synthesis and 
physiological actions of transmitters identified in nematodes is explored.


PMID: 10088995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1870. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jan;22(1):12-6.

Ca2+-calmodulin and protein kinase Cs: a hypothetical synthesis of their
conflicting convergences on shared substrate domains.

Chakravarthy B(1), Morley P, Whitfield J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Biological Sciences, National Research Council of Canada,
Ottawa, Ontario.

Evidence is accumulating that suggests that Ca2+-calmodulin (Ca2+-CaM) and the
protein kinase Cs (PKCs) obstruct each other's actions because of the embedding
of PKC phosphorylation sites in CaM or Ca2+-CaM-binding domains of a growing
number of crucial substrates in neurons (and other cells). These substrates
include the CaM storage proteins (neurogranin, neuromodulin), the
membrane-associated MARCKS (myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate)
protein, the NMDA receptor RI subunit and the autoinhibitory domain of the plasma
membrane Ca2+ pump. In this review, the emerging data are woven into a
hypothetical picture of the conflicting, timing-dependent convergence of two
major signalers on neuronal functions.


PMID: 10088994  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1871. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jan;22(1):4-12.

The neurobiology of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy, a demyelinating peroxisomal
disorder.

Dubois-Dalcq M(1), Feigenbaum V, Aubourg P.

Author information: 
(1)Unité de Neurovirologie et Régénération du Système Nerveux, Institut Pasteur, 
Paris, France.

Adrenoleukodystrophy (ALD) is caused by mutations in an ATP-binding-cassette
transporter located in the peroxisomal membrane, which result in a fatal
demyelinating disease in boys and a milder phenotype in men and some heterozygous
women. There is no molecular signature to indicate a particular clinical course. 
The underlying molecular mechanisms of this disease have yet to be targeted
clinically. Is the increase in very-long-chain fatty acids (VLCFA) the disease
trigger? Why is there no phenotype in ALD null mice that show this increase? Do
VLCFA destabilize human myelin, once formed, and lead to the inflammation seen in
this genetic disease? Bone-marrow transplantation might save a child by providing
normal brain macrophages and allowing myelin regeneration early in disease. The
processes that underlie ALD challenge neuroscientists to elucidate peroxisomal
transporter functions in the nervous system and to pursue the gene-transfer
strategies leading to remyelination until a preventive therapy emerges.


PMID: 10088993  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1872. Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jan;22(1):2-3.

A meeting in honor of David Marr.

Lisman JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology, Brandels University, Waltham, MA 02454, USA.


PMID: 10088992  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1873. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Dec;21(12):529-37.

Time domains of neuronal Ca2+ signaling and associative memory: steps through a
calexcitin, ryanodine receptor, K+ channel cascade.

Alkon DL(1), Nelson TJ, Zhao W, Cavallaro S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Adaptive Systems, National Institute of Neurological Disorders
and Stroke, Bethesda, MD 20892-4012, USA.

Synaptic changes that underlie associative learning and memory begin with
temporally related activity of two or more independent synaptic inputs to common 
postsynaptic targets. In turn, temporally related molecular events regulate
cytosolic Ca2+ during progressively longer-lasting time domains. Associative
learning behaviors of living animals have been correlated with changes of
neuronal voltage-dependent K+ currents, protein kinase C-mediated phosphorylation
and synthesis of the Ca2+ and GTP-binding protein, calexcitin (CE),and increased 
expression of the Ca2+-releasing ryanodine receptor (type II). These molecular
events, some of which have been found to be dysfunctional in Alzheimer's disease,
provide means of altering dendritic excitability and thus synaptic efficacy
during induction, consolidation and storage of associative memory. Apparently,
such stages of behavioral learning correspond to sequential differences of Ca2+
signaling that could occur in spatially segregated dendritic compartments
distributed across brain structures, such as the hippocampus.


PMID: 9881851  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1874. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Dec;21(12):521-8.

Endocannabinoids: endogenous cannabinoid receptor ligands with neuromodulatory
action.

Di Marzo V(1), Melck D, Bisogno T, De Petrocellis L.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto per la Chimica di Molecole di Interesse Biologico, CNR, Napoli,
Italy.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 1999 Feb;22(2):80.

The existence of an endogenous cannabinoid system was demonstrated conclusively
with the discovery of endogenous brain constituents capable of activating the
cannabinoid receptors functionally. These compounds are synthesized by neuronal
cells and inactivated through re-uptake and enzymatic hydrolysis by both neurons 
and astrocytes. In analogy with the endorphins they can be referred to as
endocannabinoids. Apart from the identification of their metabolic pathways,
research carried out in the past six years has focused on the possible cellular
and molecular targets for the actions of endocannabinoids. These studies have
confirmed a similarity between the endocannabinoids and the psychoactive
substance in marijuana, delta9(-)-tetrahydrocannabinol, and have suggested a role
for endocannabinoids in the modulation of neurotransmitter action and release.


PMID: 9881850  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1875. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Dec;21(12):516-20.

Ubiquitin, cellular inclusions and their role in neurodegeneration.

Alves-Rodrigues A(1), Gregori L, Figueiredo-Pereira ME.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Cell Biology and Anatomy, New York Medical College, Valhalla 10595,
USA.

Covalent binding of ubiquitin to proteins marks them for degradation by the
ubiquitin/ATP-dependent pathway. This pathway plays a major role in the breakdown
of abnormal proteins that result from oxidative stress, neurotoxicity and
mutations. Failure to eliminate ubiquitinated proteins disrupts cellular
homeostasis, causing degeneration. Inclusions containing ubiquitinated proteins
are commonly detected in many neurological disorders. These aggregates are mostly
cytosolic; nevertheless, ubiquitinated inclusions are found in
endosomes/lysosomes in Alzheimer's disease and prion encephalopathies, and in
nuclei in disorders associated with CAG/polyglutamine repeats, such as
Huntington's disease and spinocerebellar ataxias. Ubiquitinated aggregates must
result from a malfunction or overload of the ubiquitin/ATP-dependent pathway or
from structural changes in the protein substrates, halting their degradation.
Prevention of protein aggregation in these diseases might offer new therapeutic
leads.


PMID: 9881849  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1876. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Dec;21(12):515.

Adult axon regeneration in adult CNS white matter.

Davies SJ, Silver J.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):179-80.


PMID: 9881848  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1877. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Dec;21(12):510-5.

Perineuronal nets: past and present.

Celio MR(1), Spreafico R, De Biasi S, Vitellaro-Zuccarello L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Histology and General Embryology, and Programme in Neurosciences,
University of Fribourg, Switzerland.

Golgi ranked the peripheral reticulum--which adheres intimately to nerve cell
surfaces--alongside the intracellular reticulum, or Golgi apparatus,which
immortalized his name. At first dismissed as an artefact of capricious staining
techniques, this peripheral reticulum, or perineuronal net, is now recognized as 
a genuine entity in neurocytology. It represents a complex of extracellular
matrix molecules interposed between the meshwork of glial processes, from which
they are indistinguishable, and nerve-cell surfaces. In no other branch of
neuroscience has the waxing and waning of interest in any morphological entity
been so pronounced as in the case of the perineuronal net. This review traces the
history of this enigmatic structure from its conception to the present time,
brings to light the keen observational powers of morphologists at the turn of the
century and reveals how their sagacious forethought anticipated current thinking 
on the role of perineuronal nets.


PMID: 9881847  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1878. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Dec;21(12):505-9.

Stress: metaplastic effects in the hippocampus.

Kim JJ(1), Yoon KS.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, Yale University, New Haven, CT 06520-8205, USA.

Memory impairments, which occur regularly across species as a result of aging,
disease and psychological insults (for example, stress), constitute a useful area
for investigation into the neurobiological basis of learning and memory. Memory
researchers have identified the hippocampus as a crucial brain structure involved
in key aspects of memory formation. The most widely accepted putative mechanisms 
of memory storage in this structure are LTP and LTD. The hippocampus is enriched 
with receptors for corticosterone (a glucocorticoid hormone released in response 
to stress) and it plays a role in glucocorticoid negative feedback and,
therefore, some hippocampal functioning might be particularly susceptible to
stress. In support of this view, stress-induced modifications in learning,
synaptic plasticity and endangerment of neurons have been seen in the
hippocampus. Stress and glucocorticoids appear to exert a metaplastic effect
through the modulation of Ca2+ levels. We propose a synaptic model that provides 
a conceptual scaffold to structure our understanding of the manifold actions of
stress on the hippocampus. Accordingly, we suggest that stress-induced
metaplasticity could disrupt Ca2+ homeostasis and thus endanger hippocampal
neurons.


PMID: 9881846  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1879. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Dec;21(12):503-4.

Ageing brains and ebbing synapses. The Aging Brain and Cognitive Decline. British
Neuroscience Association One Day Symposium. Newcastle, United Kingdom, 16
September 1998.

Allsopp TE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Fujisawa Institute for Neuroscience in Edinburgh, Dept of Neuroscience, The
University of Edinburgh, UK.


PMID: 9881845  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1880. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Nov;21(11):487-94.

Evolution of the basal ganglia in tetrapods: a new perspective based on recent
studies in amphibians.

Marín O(1), Smeets WJ, González A.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Biología Celular, Facultad de Biología, Universidad
Complutense, Madrid, Spain.

It has been postulated frequently that the fundamental organization of the basal 
ganglia (BG) in vertebrates arose with the appearance of amniotes during
evolution. An alternative hypothesis, however, is that such a condition was
already present in early anamniotic tetrapods and, therefore, characterizes the
acquisition of the tetrapod phenotype rather than the anamniotic-amniotic
transition. Re-examination of the BG organization in tetrapods in the light of
recent findings in amphibians strongly supports the notion that elementary BG
structures were present in the brain of ancestral tetrapods and that they were
organized according to a general plan shared today by all extant tetrapods.


PMID: 9829691  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1881. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Nov;21(11):482-6.

Molecular aspects of pheromonal communication via the vomeronasal organ of
mammals.

Tirindelli R(1), Mucignat-Caretta C, Ryba NJ.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Fisiologia Umana, Università di Parma, Italy.

Recently, two large multigene families of putative G-protein-linked receptors
that are expressed in distinct subpopulations of neurones in the vomeronasal
organ have been identified. These receptors probably mediate pheromone detection.
The most surprising aspects of these findings are that there are so many
receptors of two very different classes and that the receptors are unrelated to
their counterparts in the main olfactory epithelium. This suggests that many
active ligands are likely to exert effects through the vomeronasal organ.
Parallel experiments addressing the nature of these ligands indicate a role for
some proteins, as well as small molecules, as functional mammalian pheromones. In
combination, these results begin to suggest a molecular basis for mammalian
pheromone signalling.


PMID: 9829690  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1882. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Nov;21(11):476-81.

Emerging roles for SH2/PTB-containing Shc adaptor proteins in the developing
mammalian brain.

Cattaneo E(1), Pelicci PG.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacological Sciences, University of Milano, Italy.

In mammalian systems, SH2-containing cytoplasmic signalling molecules are known
to play an important role in determining cell responsiveness to the environment. 
In particular, following activation of a receptor protein tyrosine kinase (RPTK),
proteins like Shc and Grb2 bind to phosphotyrosine residues of stimulated
receptors, thereby activating downstream components of specific signalling
pathways. The ShcA gene was identified in 1992 and was found to encode three
proteins with properties of adaptor molecules coupling RPTKs to Ras. Early data
obtained in non-neuronal cells have revealed that Shc and Grb2 proteins are
highly expressed and activated in all cells. However, recent analyses of ShcA
mRNA and protein in the developing brain revealed progressive downregulation of
their expression during differentiation from neuroblasts to neurons. Conversely, 
the two newly identified Shc homologues (ShcB/Sli and ShcC/Rai) are highly
expressed in the mature brain.Thus, variations in the intracellular levels of
adaptor proteins might represent one of the mechanisms by which a differentiating
cell changes its ability to respond to a given factor, allowing a cell to choose 
between proliferation and differentiation.


PMID: 9829689  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1883. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Nov;21(11):471-6.

Neuropeptide-mediated excitability: a key triggering mechanism for seizure
generation in the developing brain.

Baram TZ(1), Hatalski CG.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy, University of California at Irvine, 92697-4475, USA.

Most human seizures occur early in life,consistent with established
excitability-promoting features of the developing brain. Surprisingly, the
majority of developmental seizures are not spontaneous but are provoked by
injurious or stressful stimuli. What mechanisms mediate'triggering' of seizures
and limit such reactive seizures to early postnatal life? Recent evidence
implicates the excitatory neuropeptide, corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH).
Stress activates expression of the CRH gene in several limbic regions, and
CRH-expressing neurons are strategically localized in the immature rat
hippocampus, in which this neuropeptide increases the excitability of pyramidal
cells in vitro. Indeed, in vivo, activation of CRH receptors--maximally expressed
in hippocampus and amygdala during the developmental period which is
characterized by peak susceptibility to 'provoked' convulsions--induces severe,
age-dependent seizures. Thus, converging data indicate that activation of
expression of CRH constitutes an important mechanism for generating
developmentally regulated, triggered seizures, with considerable clinical
relevance.


PMCID: PMC3372323
PMID: 9829688  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1884. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Nov;21(11):469-70.

A tortuous and viscous route to understanding diffusion in the brain.

Rusakov DA, Kullmann DM.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):207-15.


PMID: 9829687  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1885. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Nov;21(11):468-9.

The pathophysiological mechanism underlying Rasmussen's encephalitis: a debate.

Paas Y.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Mar;21(3):117-25.


PMID: 9829686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1886. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Nov;21(11):460-8.

The Human Brain Project: neuroinformatics tools for integrating, searching and
modeling multidisciplinary neuroscience data.

Shepherd GM(1), Mirsky JS, Healy MD, Singer MS, Skoufos E, Hines MS, Nadkarni PM,
Miller PL.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06510, USA.

What is neuroinformatics? What is the Human Brain Project? Why should you care?
Supported by a consortium of US funding agencies, the Human Brain Project aims to
bring to the analysis of brain function the same advantages of
Internet-accessible databases and database tools that have been crucial to the
development of molecular biology and the Human Genome Project. The much greater
complexity of neural data, however, makes this a far more challenging task. As a 
pilot project in this new initiative, we review some of the progress that has
been made and indicate some of the problems, challenges and opportunities that
lie ahead.


PMID: 9829685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1887. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Nov;21(11):453-60.

Excitable dendrites and spines: earlier theoretical insights elucidate recent
direct observations.

Segev I(1), Rall W.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, Institute of Life Science and Center for Neural
Computation, Hebrew University, Jerusalem, Israel.

Important advances in experimental methods have made it possible to measure the
electrical events in dendrites directly and to record optically from dendritic
spines. These new techniques allow us to focus on the input region of the neuron 
and highlight the excitable properties of the dendritic membrane. Interestingly, 
some of the recent experimental findings were anticipated by earlier theoretical 
research, for example, the observation that some spines possess excitable
channels that might generate local all-or-none events. Computer models were used 
previously to explore the conditions for initiating an action potential at the
dendritic tree, in particular, at the spine head, and for active propagation
between excitable spines and excitable dendritic arbors. The consequences for
synaptic amplification, for the extent of active spread in the tree and for
non-linear discriminations between different patterns of synaptic inputs were
also considered. Here we review the biophysical insights gained from the theory
and demonstrate how these elucidate the recent experimental results.


PMID: 9829684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1888. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Nov;21(11):451-2.

Low-voltage-activated (T-type) calcium-channel genes identified.

Huguenard JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School of
Medicine, CA 94305-5122, USA.


PMID: 9829683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1889. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Oct;21(10):444-9.

Neurexin IV, caspr and paranodin--novel members of the neurexin family:
encounters of axons and glia.

Bellen HJ(1), Lu Y, Beckstead R, Bhat MA.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Human and Molecular Genetics, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Axonal insulation is of key importance for the proper propagation of action
potentials. In Drosophila and other invertebrates, it has recently been
demonstrated that septate junctions play an essential role in axonal insulation
or blood-brain-barrier formation. Neurexin IV, a molecular component of
Drosophila septate junctions, has been shown to be essential for axonal
insulation in the PNS in embryos and larvae. Interestingly, a vertebrate homolog 
of Neurexin IV, caspr--also named paranodin--has been shown to localize to
septate-like junctional structures. These vertebrate junctions are localized to
the paranodal region of the nodes of Ranvier, between axons and Schwann cells.
Caspr/paranodin might play an important role in barrier formation, and link
neuronal membrane components with the axonal cytoskeletal network.


PMID: 9786343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1890. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Oct;21(10):438-44.

Emerging themes in structural biology of neurotrophic factors.

Ibáñez CF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):108-9.

Neurotrophic factors control the survival, differentiation and maintenance of
neurons in the peripheral and central nervous systems. Their discovery and
characterization have been instrumental to our understanding of a wide range of
phenomena in the development, plasticity and repair of the nervous system. Their 
potential importance in the development of therapeutic agents against
neurodegenerative disorders and nerve injury has led to a flurry of activity
towards understanding their structure, function and signaling mechanisms. This
knowledge has increased dramatically in recent years, in particular due to the
elucidation of three-dimensional structures, the discovery of families of
structurally related neurotrophic factors and the characterization of receptors
and downstream signaling components. Common themes are emerging from these recent
studies that allow us to make new insights and predictions as to the function and
possible clinical utility of these molecules.


PMID: 9786342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1891. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Oct;21(10):433-7.

Neurotrophin trafficking by anterograde transport.

Altar CA(1), DiStefano PS.

Author information: 
(1)Global Neuroscience Research Otsuka America Pharmaceutical Inc., Rockville, MD
20850, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Mar;22(3):108-9.

The ever-unfolding biology of NGF is consistent with a target-derived retrograde 
mode of action in peripheral and central neurons. However, another member of the 
neurotrophin family, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), is present within 
nerve terminals in certain regions of the brain and PNS that do not contain the
corresponding mRNA. Recent studies have shown that the endogenous neurotrophins, 
BDNF and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), are transported anterogradely by central and
peripheral neurons. The supply of BDNF by afferents is consistent with their
presynaptic synthesis, vesicular storage, release and postsynaptic actions.
Anterograde axonal transport provides an 'afferent supply' of BDNF and NT-3 to
neurons and target tissues, where they function as trophic factors and as
neurotransmitters.


PMID: 9786341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1892. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Oct;21(10):428-33.

Tau protein pathology in neurodegenerative diseases.

Spillantini MG(1), Goedert M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Cambridge, UK.

Abundant tau-positive neurofibrillary lesions constitute a defining
neuropathological characteristic of Alzheimer's disease. Filamentous tau
pathology is also central to a number of other dementing disorders, such as
Pick's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration and
familial frontotemporal dementia and Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17
(FTDP-17). The discovery of mutations in the tau gene in FTDP-17 has firmly
established the relevance of tau pathology for the neurodegenerative process.
Experimental studies have provided a system for the assembly of full-length tau
into Alzheimer-like filaments, providing an assay for the testing of compounds
that inhabit the formation of tau filaments.


PMID: 9786340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1893. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Oct;21(10):426-7.

Agrin and the neuromuscular junction.

Lømo T.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):22-7.


PMID: 9786339  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1894. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Oct;21(10):423-6.

On brain lesions, the milkman and Sigmunda.

Izquierdo I(1), Medina JH.

Author information: 
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica, ICBS, Universidad Federal de Rio Grande do Sul,
Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Feb;22(2):61.

Lesion studies have been of historical importance in establishing the brain
systems involved in memory processes. Many of those studies, however, have been
overinterpreted in terms of the actual role of each system and of connections
between systems. The more recent molecular pharmacological approach has produced 
major advances in these two areas. The main biochemical steps of memory formation
in the CAI region of the hippocampus have been established by localized
microinfusions of drugs acting on specific enzymes of receptors, by subcellular
measurements of the activity or function of those enzymes and receptors at
definite times, and by transgenic deletions or changes of those proteins. The
biochemical steps of long-term memory formation in CAI have been found to be
quite similar to those of long-term potentiation in the same region, and of other
forms of plasticity. Connections between the hippocampus and the entorhinal and
parietal cortices in the formation and modulation of short- and long-term memory 
have also been elucidated using these techniques. Lesion studies, coupled with
imaging studies, still have a role to play; with regard to human memory, this
role is in many ways unique. But these methods by themselves are not informative 
as to the mechanisms of memory processing, storage or modulation.


PMID: 9786338  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1895. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Oct;21(10):421-2.

Associations by association?

Thomas K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, UK.


PMID: 9786337  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1896. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Sep;21(9):413-8.

Genes involved in hereditary ataxias.

Klockgether T(1), Evert B.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, University of Bonn, Germany.

The hereditary ataxias are a group of inherited neurodegenerative disorders
characterized by progressive ataxia that results from degeneration of the
cerebellum and its afferent and efferent connections. Recent molecular research
has led not only to the discovery of a number of causative mutations, but also
shed light on the likely mechanisms by which these mutations cause the respective
phenotypes. In Friedreich's ataxia (FRDA), the most common type of autosomal
recessive ataxia, the loss of a mitochondrial protein, frataxin, results in
overload of mitochondrial iron and oxidative stress. The autosomal dominant
ataxias, spinocerebellar ataxia type I (SCAI), SCA2, SCA3 and SCA7, are caused by
inheritance of an unstable, expanded CAG trinucleotide repeat. These disorders
are assumed to be due to a novel deleterious function of the extended
polyglutamine sequences within the proteins encoded by the respective genes.
Recent observations in transgenic mice and in human post-mortem tissue suggest
that the extended proteins are transported into the nucleus of neurons where they
form intranuclear inclusions that disrupt normal nuclear function. In another
group of dominant disorders, episodic ataxia type I and type 2 (EA-I, EA-2) and
SCA6, the mutations affect genes that code for ion channels.


PMID: 9735950  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1897. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Sep;21(9):407-13.

Plasticity of the olivocerebellar pathway.

Strata P(1), Rossi F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Turin, Torino, Italy.

The adult olivocerebellar axons and their terminal arbours, the climbing fibres, 
are capable of remarkable structural plasticity, regulated through their
interaction with Purkinje cells. When these cells are deleted,terminal climbing
fibre branches retract. In contrast,there is a vigorous outgrowth of entire
terminal arbours when extra postsynaptic neurones are available. The new
connections lead to a functional, highly specific pattern of innervation at the
single Purkinje cell level and are topographically organized according to the
principles of the original projection map.A reversible climbing fibre retraction 
occurs following depression of electrical activity of the cerebellar cortex.
These remarkable plastic properties, together with the fact that these neurones
express several growth-associated genes constitutively, suggest that the climbing
fibre synapses might be adjusted dynamically to participate in physiological
plasticity.


PMID: 9735949  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1898. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Sep;21(9):401-7.

Cellular mechanisms of cerebellar LTD.

Daniel H(1), Levenes C, Crépel F.

Author information: 
(1)Institut des Neurosciences, CNRS-Université Paris VI, France.

In the past decade there have been advances in understanding the cellular
mechanisms of the long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission at parallel
fiber-Purkinje cell synapses in the cerebellum. This review first summarizes
current views on mechanisms involved in LTD induction, from activation of
voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, of ionotropic (AMPA) and metabotropic (mGluRI)
glutamate receptors, to stimulation of protein kinase C and nitric oxide
formation. Second, we will focus on recent findings that point towards the
involvement of Ca2+ release from internal stores in LTD induction, localize the
sources and targets of nitric oxide and indicate a postsynaptic site for LTD
expression. Finally, a role for LTD in motor learning is now well supported by
recent experiments on transgenic mice.


PMID: 9735948  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1899. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Sep;21(9):391-400.

Microcircuitry and function of the inferior olive.

De Zeeuw CI(1), Simpson JI, Hoogenraad CC, Galjart N, Koekkoek SK, Ruigrok TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

The inferior olive, which provides the climbing fibers to Purkinje cells in the
cerebellar cortex, has been implicated in various functions, such as learning and
timing of movements, and comparing intended with achieved movements. For example,
climbing-fiber activity could transmit error signals during eye-blink
conditioning or adaptation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex, or it could carry
motor command signals beating on the rhythm of the oscillating and synchronous
firing of ensembles of olivary neurons, or both. In this review, we approach the 
controversial issue of olivocerebellar function from the perspective of the
unique organization of the microcircuitry of the olivary neuropil. The
characteristic glomeruli are formed by a core of long dendritic or axonal spines,
each of which is innervated by both an inhibitory terminal derived from the
hindbrain and an excitatory terminal derived from either an ascending or
descending input. The dendritic spines, which originate from dendrites with
varicosities carrying dendritic lamellar bodies, are coupled by gap junctions. By
drawing a comparison with a computational model by Segev and Rall,which might be 
applicable to the typical olivary spine with its unique morphological features
and combined excitatory and inhibitory input, we propose that the microcircuitry 
of the inferior olive is capable of functioning both in motor learning and motor 
timing, but does not directly compare intended with achieved movements.


PMID: 9735947  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1900. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Sep;21(9):383-90.

From zebra stripes to postal zones: deciphering patterns of gene expression in
the cerebellum.

Oberdick J(1), Baader SL, Schilling K.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience and the Neurobiotechnology Center, The Ohio State
University College of Medicine, Columbus 43210, USA.

The analysis of patterned gene expression has been an important tool for
dissecting the molecular and developmental bases of functional
compartmentalization in the mammalian cerebellum. In particular,
sagittally-oriented cellular aggregates arranged along the mediolateral axis are 
the patterning element most commonly invoked to illustrate cerebellar
compartmentalization, and these are revealed both by patterns of afferent
projection and by a number of classical biochemical markers that are distributed 
in a pattern of'zebra stripes'. Compartmentation along both the mediolateral and 
rostrocaudal axes might be linked mechanistically to segmentation in the fruit
fly, since early cerebellar development is especially dependent upon the
expression of mammalian homologs of Drosophila segmentation genes. In addition,
as has been demonstrated in the retinotectal system, some of these genes are
likely to control positional information required for the sagittal organization
of cerebellar afferent projections. However, in contrast to these global or macro
zones, the cerebellum is also compartmentalized at the subcellular or micro
level. This can be visualized by differential patterns of mRNA distribution
within the sole cerebellar efferent system, the Purkinje cell, defining within
such cells a number of distinct subcellular domains or 'postal zones'. The global
versus subcellular levels of cerebellar compartmentalization are related since
they both appear to be linked to patterns of afferent innervation.A major goal of
cerebellar research will be to unravel the true nature of such a relationship,
and its relevance to function and behavior.


PMID: 9735946  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1901. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Sep;21(9):375-82.

The cells and molecules that make a cerebellum.

Goldowitz D(1), Hamre K.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Tennessee, Memphis 38163, USA.

The molecular underpinnings of cerebellar development are being established
through the identification of naturally occurring mutated genes and the knockout 
of other genes. Sets of genes expressed in the regions of the mes- and
metencephalon have been shown to play a crucial role in specifying the cerebellar
anlage. Other genes have been shown to be crucial to early granule-cell
development, migration of Purkinje and granule cells, and neuron-glia
interactions. However, the process of development will ultimately be understood
in terms of cellular interactions and the roles that each cell type plays in the 
assembly of cerebellar structure. One of the most important interactions is
between granule and Purkinje cells. This relationship has been shown to be
crucial for the control of cell number, migration of neuroblasts and cell
differentiation.


PMID: 9735945  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1902. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Sep;21(9):370-5.

The anatomy of the cerebellum.

Voogd J(1), Glickstein M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Vertebrate cerebella occupy a position in the rostral roof of the 4th ventricle
and share a common pattern in the structure of their cortex. They differ greatly 
in their external form, the disposition of the neurones of the cerebellar cortex 
and in the prominence of their afferent, intrinsic and efferent connections.


PMID: 9735944  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1903. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Sep;21(9):367-9.

The cerebellum: an overview.

Middleton FA, Strick PL.

Life has been compared to a beautiful tapestry, woven in intricate design of many
threads and colors. By means of physics, chemistry, physiology, anatomy,
embryology and genetics we unravel this texture, separate its constituent threads
and colors, but lose the pattern as a whole. These analytical sciences have
enormously increased our knowledge of life's constituent elements and processes, 
but the pattern of the tapestry is usually neglected or ignored.


PMID: 9735943  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1904. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):355-61.

Abstract representations of numbers in the animal and human brain.

Dehaene S(1), Dehaene-Lambertz G, Cohen L.

Author information: 
(1)Inserm U. 334, Service Hospitalier Frédéric Joliot, CEA/DSV/DRM, Orsay,
France.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 1998 Dec;21(12):509.

There is evidence to suggest that animals, young infants and adult humans possess
a biologically determined, domain-specific representation of number and of
elementary arithmetic operations. Behavioral studies in infants and animals
reveal number perception, discrimination and elementary calculation abilities in 
non-verbal organisms. Lesion and brain-imaging studies in humans indicate that a 
specific neural substrate, located in the left and right intraparietal area, is
associated with knowledge of numbers and their relations ('number sense'). The
number domain is a prime example where strong evidence points to an evolutionary 
endowment of abstract domain-specific knowledge in the brain because there are
parallels between number processing in animals and humans.The numerical distance 
effect, which refers to the finding that the ability to discriminate between two 
numbers improves as the numerical distance between them increases, has been
demonstrated in humans and animals, as has the number size effect,which refers to
the finding that for equal numerical distance,discrimination of two numbers
worsens as their numerical size increases.


PMID: 9720604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1905. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):349-55.

NO news from insect brains.

Bicker G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Tierökologie und Zellbiologie, Tierärztliche Hochschule Hannover,
Germany.

In nerve cells,the short-lived signalling molecule nitric oxide (NO) is generated
by Ca2+-calmodulin-stimulated NO synthases. Nitric oxide activates soluble
guanylate cyclase in target cells, leading to the formation of cGMP. Biochemical 
investigations have shown the presence of a Ca2+-calmodulin-regulated NO-cGMP
signalling mechanism in the nervous system of insects. Using NADPH-diaphorase
staining as a marker for the enzyme NO synthase and an antiserum against cGMP,the
cellular organization of NO donor and target cells has so far been resolved in
the locust and fruit fly. This paper provides an overview of the cellular
organization of NO signalling in the insect nervous system as well as
highlighting its functions in olfactory information processing, formation of
olfactory memory, vision, and neuronal development. The resolution of discrete
donor and NO-responsive target cells in the developing nervous system of
Drosophila will facilitate the genetic and pharmacological analysis of NO-cGMP
signal transduction.


PMID: 9720603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1906. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):344-9.

Neuronal chemistry and functional organization in the primate visual system.

Hendry SH(1), Calkins DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, Krieger Mind/Brain Institute, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, MD 21218, USA.

Beginning with the first step of visual processing and proceeding outward from
that point, the neurons involved in different aspects of vision are distinct.
Stated simply, neurons doing different things look different. They often display 
distinct morphological features and they usually express different molecules. In 
addition, neurons that perform a common function usually aggregate together to
form recognizable layers or compartments that can be studied in isolation because
they are neurochemically distinct. Here is found, then, a junction of two major
domains in neuroscience research, as discovery of molecular diversity among
neurons is exploited to study organization and function of the primate visual
system.


PMID: 9720602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1907. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):339-44.

The amphiphysin family of proteins and their role in endocytosis at the synapse.

Wigge P(1), McMahon HT.

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiology Division, MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge, UK.

Clathrin-mediated endocytosis at the plasma membrane is a major pathway of
synaptic vesicle recycling in neurones, but little is known about the molecular
machinery that orchestrates the process. The amphiphysin protein has recently
emerged into the limelight since its discovery in 1992 as a synaptic
vesicle-associated protein. It was subsequently found to interact in vitro with
the GTPase dynamin through its SH3 domain. However, only in the past year has its
role in endocytosis been confirmed, with the demonstration that the introduction 
of dominant-negative-acting SH3 domains into living cells causes a potent
blockade of clathrin-mediated endocytosis. This, together with the discovery by
several groups of a second nerve terminal-enriched amphiphysin isoform, and the
finding that the two proteins heterodimerize, further suggests that the
amphiphysins are closely connected with dynamin-mediated vesicle budding. This
review summarizes current views in the field, and draws on data that suggest
intriguing alternative roles--including possible involvement in the cytoskeleton 
and in tumour suppression--for certain members of the amphiphysin family.


PMID: 9720601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1908. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):337-8.

Vertebrate taste-bud development: are salamanders the model?

Meyer-Rochow VB.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):38-43.


PMID: 9720600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1909. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):337; author reply 338.

Vertebrate taste-bud development: are salamanders the model?

Oakley B.


PMID: 9720599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1910. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):336-7.

Amphibian basal ganglia control of tectal function: a complex matter.

Marín O, González A, Smeets WJ.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):332-9.


PMID: 9720598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1911. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):331-5.

Mutations in RNA: a first example of molecular misreading in Alzheimer's disease.

van Leeuwen FW(1), Burbach JP, Hol EM.

Author information: 
(1)Netherlands Institute for Brain Research, Amsterdam.

In the past decade, considerable progress has been made in the understanding of
the neurodegenerative changes that occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Knowledge
about this disease is based mainly on studies of inherited forms of AD, although 
most cases of AD are of the non-familial type. Recently, a novel type of mutation
in 'vulnerable' dinucleotide repeats in messenger RNA was discovered in AD
patients: in this type of mutation a mutated transcript is produced from a
correct DNA sequence, a process that we call 'molecular misreading'. The
resulting mutated '+1 proteins' are prominent neuropathological hallmarks of AD
and they are present in most elderly non-demented people also. This suggests that
the dinucleotide deletions in transcripts could be one of the earliest events in 
the neuropathogenesis of AD and an important factor in normal aging.


PMID: 9720597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1912. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):323-31.

What is the amygdala?

Swanson LW(1), Petrovich GD.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Program at the University of Southern California, Los Angeles
90089-2520, USA.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 May;22(5):207-8.

'Amygdala' and 'amygdalar complex' are terms that now refer to a highly
differentiated region near the temporal pole of the mammalian cerebral
hemisphere. Cell groups within it appear to be differentiated parts of the
traditional cortex, the claustrum, or the striatum, and these parts belong to
four obvious functional systems--accessory olfactory, main olfactory, autonomic
and frontotemporal cortical. In rats, the central nucleus is a specialized
autonomic-projecting motor region of the striatum, whereas the lateral and
anterior basolateral nuclei together are a ventromedial extension of the
claustrum for major regions of the temporal and frontal lobes. The rest of the
amygdala forms association parts of the olfactory system (accessory and main),
with cortical, claustral and striatal parts. Terms such as 'amygdala' and
'lenticular nucleus' combine cell groups arbitrarily rather than according to the
structural and functional units to which they now seem to belong. The amygdala is
neither a structural nor a functional unit.


PMID: 9720596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1913. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):317-23.

The hippocampus as an associator of discontiguous events.

Wallenstein GV(1), Eichenbaum H, Hasselmo ME.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA.

The hippocampus has long been thought to be an important cortical region for
associative learning and memory. After several decades of experimental and
theoretical studies, a picture is emerging slowly of the generic types of
learning tasks that this neural structure might be essential for solving.
Recently, there have been attempts to unify electrophysiological and behavioral
observations from rodents performing spatial learning tasks with data from
primates performing various tests of conditional and discrimination learning.
Most of these theoretical frameworks have rested primarily on behavioral
observations. Complementing these perspectives,we ask the question: given certain
physiological constraints at the neuronal and cortical level, what class of
learning problems is the hippocampus, in particular, most suited to solve? From a
computational point of view, we argue that this structure is involved most
critically in learning and memory tasks in which discontiguous items must be
associated, in terms of their temporal or spatial positioning, or both.


PMID: 9720595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1914. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):315-7.

The how and why of chronic pain states and the what of new analgesia therapies.

Dray A(1), Rang H.

Author information: 
(1)Astra Research Centre Montréal, Canada.


PMID: 9720594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1915. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jul;21(7):306-11.

Imprinting, learning and development: from behaviour to brain and back.

Bolhuis JJ(1), Honey RC.

Author information: 
(1)Sub-Dept of Animal Behaviour, University of Cambridge, UK.

Neural and behavioural analyses have shown that the formation of filial
preferences in young, precocial birds involves at least two separate processes.
One process is an emerging predisposition to approach stimuli with the
characteristics of the natural mother. The other (learning) process of filial
imprinting results in chicks preferentially-approaching a stimulus to which they 
have been exposed and involves forming links between the components of the
exposed stimulus. The neural substrate for the predisposition is different from
that underlying imprinting, and different regions of the chick brain are involved
in distinct aspects of learning about imprinting stimuli.


PMID: 9683323  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1916. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jul;21(7):300-5.

Visual imprinting and the neural mechanisms of recognition memory.

Horn G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Zoology, University of Cambridge, UK.

To understand the neural bases of memory it is necessary to localize the regions 
storing information. Part of the hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV) serves such a
function for the learning process of imprinting in domestic chicks. Chicks
exposed to an object learn its characteristics, and in doing so, the
responsiveness of IMHV neurones to that object is selectively enhanced.
Imprinting is associated with both pre- and postsynaptic changes in the region.
Postsynaptic changes involve increases in the length of the postsynaptic density 
on dendritic spines and in the numbers of NMDA receptors; presynaptically,
converging evidence points to an early and persistent enhancement of
neurotransmitter release. Increases in the amounts of certain neural cell
adhesion molecules a day after training might serve to stabilize the synaptic
changes associated with a particular memory by strengthening pre- to postsynaptic
adhesion, and by more strongly interconnecting the cytoskeletal frameworks of the
dendritic spine and the synaptic terminal. Learning-related increases in the
number of neurones staining positive for the transcription factor Fos in the IMHV
give promise of identifying the neurones engaged in memory functions and of
analysing their connections.


PMID: 9683322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1917. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jul;21(7):294-9.

Mechanisms of emotional arousal and lasting declarative memory.

Cahill L(1), McGaugh JL.

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Neurobiology of Learning and Memory and Dept of Psychobiology, 
University of California Irvine, 92697-3800, USA.

Neuroscience is witnessing growing interest in understanding brain mechanisms of 
memory formation for emotionally arousing events, a development closely related
to renewed interest in the concept of memory consolidation. Extensive research in
animals implicates stress hormones and the amygdaloid complex as key, interacting
modulators of memory consolidation for emotional events. Considerable evidence
suggests that the amygdala is not a site of long-term explicit or declarative
memory storage, but serves to influence memory-storage processes in other brain
regions, such as the hippocampus, striatum and neocortex. Human-subject studies
confirm the prediction of animal work that the amygdala is involved with the
formation of enhanced declarative memory for emotionally arousing events.


PMID: 9683321  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1918. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jul;21(7):288-94.

Correlating structure and function in ATP-sensitive K+ channels.

Ashcroft FM(1), Gribble FM.

Author information: 
(1)University Lab of Physiology, Oxford, UK.

ATP-sensitive K+ channels couple cell metabolism to electrical activity in nerve,
muscle and endocrine cells, and play important roles in these tissues under both 
physiological and pathological conditions. The KATP channel is an octameric
complex of two unrelated types of subunit: a pore-forming subunit (Kir6.2) and a 
regulatory subunit, the sulphonylurea receptor (SUR). This review focuses on the 
regulation of KATP channel activity by nucleotides and cell metabolism and
considers which regulatory mechanisms are intrinsic to Kir6.2 and which are
conferred by association with SUR.


PMID: 9683320  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1919. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jul;21(7):286-7.

On slices, synaptosomes and dissociated neurones to study in vitro ageing
physiology.

Foster TC, Norris CM.


PMID: 9683319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1920. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jul;21(7):286; author reply 287.

On slices, synaptosomes and dissociated neurones to study in vitro ageing
physiology.

Cunha RA.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):2-7.


PMID: 9683318  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1921. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jul;21(7):282-6.

Pathogenesis of Charcot-Marie-Tooth 1A (CMT1A) neuropathy.

Hanemann CO(1), Müller HW.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Heinrich-Heine-University, Düsseldorf, Germany.

The hereditary neuropathy Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) type 1A is, in the majority
of cases, caused by duplication of the gene for the peripheral myelin protein
PMP22, which leads to abnormally increased PMP22 expression. Recent in vitro and 
in vivo data indicate a novel function of PMP22 in Schwann-cell growth and
differentiation other than its role in myelination, and suggest that
overproduction of PMP22 leads to a new Schwann-cell phenotype in CMT1A. Taking
these data into account, we developed a new hypothesis on the pathogenesis of
CMT1A neuropathy: that the defective myelin stability and turnover observed in
the disease is caused by altered PMP22 gene dosage and its resultant effect on
abnormal Schwann-cell growth and differentiation.


PMID: 9683317  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1922. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jul;21(7):278-82.

Gut feelings about recovery after stroke: the organization and reorganization of 
human swallowing motor cortex.

Hamdy S(1), Rothwell JC.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Human Movement and Balance Unit, Institute of Neurology, London, UK.

Swallowing problems can affect as many as one in three patients in the period
immediately after a stroke. In some cases this can lead to serious morbidity, in 
particular malnutrition and pulmonary aspiration. Despite this, swallowing
usually recovers completely in the vast majority of patients within weeks. This
impressive propensity for recovery is likely to relate to how the area of the
motor cortex concerned with swallowing is organized and then reorganized after
cerebral injury. Recent studies have indicated that swallowing has a bilateral
but asymmetric inter-hemisphere representation within motor and premotor cortex. 
Damage to the hemisphere that has the greater swallowing output appears to
predispose that individual to swallowing problems. However, because there is
additional substrate for swallowing in the undamaged hemisphere, the capacity for
compensatory reorganization in the contralateral motor cortex might be increased,
leading to a greater likelihood of recovery. Swallowing might be an excellent
system for studying cortical plasticity, and might prove useful in the
development of new therapies aimed at accelerating reorganization in the
undamaged hemisphere after unilateral cerebral injury.


PMID: 9683316  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1923. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jul;21(7):273-8.

A model of hippocampal memory encoding and retrieval: GABAergic control of
synaptic plasticity.

Paulsen O(1), Moser EI.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Anatomical Neuropharmacology Unit, University Dept of Pharmacology,
Oxford, UK.

The current view of the role of GABAergic interneurones in cortical-network
function has shifted from one of merely dampening neuronal activity to that of an
active role in information processing. In this review, we explore a potential
role of hippocampal GABAergic interneurones in providing spatial and temporal
conditions for modifications of synaptic weights during hippocampus-dependent
memory processes. We argue that knowledge of spatiotemporal activity patterns in 
distinct classes of interneurone is essential to understanding the cellular
mechanisms underlying learning and memory.


PMID: 9683315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1924. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):265-9.

Development of whisker-related patterns in marsupials: factors controlling
timing.

Waite PM(1), Marotte LR, Leamey CA, Mark RF.

Author information: 
(1)School of Anatomy, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.

In mature rodents, whisker-related patterns are known to be present in three
levels of the brain: the brainstem trigeminal nuclei, the ventrobasal thalamus
and the somatosensory cortex. These patterns have been demonstrated using
neuroanatomical tracing techniques, histological and histochemical staining
methods and electrophysiological recordings. The development and topography of
these patterns are dependent on an intact periphery. But what governs when
patterns form at the three levels? Possibilities include a controlling signal
from the periphery or local mechanisms at each site, such as the arrival of
afferent inputs or the maturation of target tissue. In this review, we report on 
the maturation of the whisker pathway in a marsupial, the wallaby, where the slow
tempo of development is a feature. At each level, afferent fibres grow into the
region of termination many weeks before the whisker-related pattern emerges. The 
results suggest that the maturity of the target tissue as well as signals from
the periphery combine to trigger pattern formation at each level of the pathway.


PMID: 9641540  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1925. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):259-65.

The 'Ideal Homunculus': decoding neural population signals.

Oram MW(1), Földiák P, Perrett DI, Sengpiel F.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of St Andrews, UK.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 1998 Aug;21(8):365.

Information processing in the nervous system involves the activity of large
populations of neurons. It is possible, however, to interpret the activity of
relatively small numbers of cells in terms of meaningful aspects of the
environment. 'Bayesian inference' provides a systematic and effective method of
combining information from multiple cells to accomplish this. It is not a model
of a neural mechanism (neither are alternative methods, such as the population
vector approach) but a tool for analysing neural signals. It does not require
difficult assumptions about the nature of the dimensions underlying cell
selectivity, about the distribution and tuning of cell responses or about the way
in which information is transmitted and processed. It can be applied to any
parameter of neural activity (for example, firing rate or temporal pattern). In
this review, we demonstrate the power of Bayesian analysis using examples of
visual responses of neurons in primary visual and temporal cortices. We show that
interaction between correlation in mean responses to different stimuli (signal)
and correlation in response variability within stimuli (noise) can lead to marked
improvement of stimulus discrimination using population responses.


PMID: 9641539  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1926. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):254-9.

Is there a vestibular cortex?

Guldin WO(1), Grüsser OJ.

Author information: 
(1)Freie Universität Berlin, Fachbereich Humanmedizin, Universitäts-klinikum
Benjamin Franklin, Germany.

Very different areas of the primate cortex have been labelled as 'vestibular'.
However, no clear concept has emerged as to where and how the vestibular
information is processed in the cerebral cortex. On the basis of data from
single-unit recordings and tracer studies, the present article gives statistical 
evidence of the existence of a well-defined vestibular cortical system. Because
the data presented here have been verified in three different primate species, it
can be predicted that a similar vestibular cortical system also exists in humans.


PMID: 9641538  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1927. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):249-54.

The synucleins: a family of proteins involved in synaptic function, plasticity,
neurodegeneration and disease.

Clayton DF(1), George JM.

Author information: 
(1)Beckman Institute and Dept of Cell and Structural Biology, The University of
Illinois, Urbana 61801, USA.

Synuclein proteins are produced, in vertebrates, by three genes. They share
structural resemblance to apolipoproteins, but are abundant in the neuronal
cytosol and present in enriched amounts at presynaptic terminals. Synucleins have
been specifically implicated in three diseases:Alzheimer's (AD), Parkinson's (PD)
and breast cancer. In AD, a peptide derived from alpha-synuclein forms an
intrinsic component of plaque amyloid. In PD, an alpha-synuclein allele is
genetically linked to several independent familial cases, and the protein appears
to accumulate in Lewy bodies. In breast cancer, increased expression of
gamma-synuclein correlates with disease progression. In songbirds,
alpha-synuclein expression is correlated with plasticity in the developing song
control system. Although the normal function of synucleins is unknown, a role in 
membrane plasticity seems likely.


PMID: 9641537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1928. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):243-9.

New insights into the regulation and function of brain estrogen synthase
(aromatase).

Balthazart J(1), Ball GF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Biochimie, Unité de Recherches en Neuroendocrinologie du
Comportement, Université de Liège, Belgium.

In the brain, conversion of androgens into estrogens by the enzyme aromatase
(estrogen synthase) is a key mechanism by which testosterone regulates many
physiological and behavioral processes, including the activation of male sexual
behavior, brain sexual differentiation and negative feedback effects of steroid
hormones on gonadotropin secretion. Studies on the distribution and regulation of
brain aromatase have led to a new perspective on the control and function of this
enzyme. A growing body of evidence indicates that the estrogen regulation of
aromatase is, at least in part, trans-synaptic. Afferent catecholamine pathways
appear to regulate aromatase activity in some brain areas and thereby provide a
way for environmental cues to modulate this enzyme. The localization of aromatase
in pre-synaptic boutons suggests possible roles for estrogens at the synapse.


PMID: 9641536  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1929. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):241-2.

The GluR2 (GluRB) hypothesis in ischemia: missing links.

Ben-Ari Y, Khrestchatisky M.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):464-70.


PMID: 9641535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1930. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):240-1.

Intrinsic circuitry of the amygdaloid complex: common principles of organization 
in rats and cats.

Paré D, Smith Y.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Nov;20(11):517-23.


PMID: 9641534  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1931. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):237-40.

Rembrandt's 'The anatomy lesson of Dr. Joan Deijman'.

Gross CG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, Princeton University, NJ 08544, USA.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 1998 Aug;21(8):335.

Rembrandt's striking painting of a human brain being dissected by a headless
figure is actually a fragment of a larger work. The original was both a
commissioned group portrait of a surgeons' guild and an account of a public
dissection. Such dissections served both educational and entertainment functions 
in 17th century Holland.


PMID: 9641533  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1932. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):231-7.

Simulation in neurobiology: theory or experiment?

Amit DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)INFN, Sezione di Roma, Dipartimento di Fisica Università di Roma, La Sapienza.

Investigation in neurophysiology usually involves measurements of large
population-average signals or small sample recordings. There is an underlying
assumption that the observations express activity of large groups of similarly
acting neurons that is the result of a bottom-up scenario in which individual
cells, via their synaptic interactions, lead to the large scale phenomena. The
connection between the levels must be provided by theory, which must also provide
the relevant variables for observation. It is suggested that between the
experiment and the full theory there is a creative, mixed role for simulation:
both experimental and theoretical. A simulation presents complex dynamics and
hence is an empirical board for testing theoretical tools, yet its controlled
behaviour can make predictions about the biological system.


PMID: 9641532  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1933. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):226-31.

Mathematical guidance for axons.

Goodhill GJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Georgetown Institute for Cognitive and Computational Sciences Research
Building, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC 20007, USA.

Axon guidance by gradients plays an important role in wiring up the developing
nervous system. Growth cones seem to sense a concentration difference across
their spatial extent, and convert this into a signal to move up or down a
gradient. In this article, a simple mathematical framework is developed to
understand when and where gradient detection can occur as a function of gradient 
shape. This framework is applied to two examples:the guidance of axons by
target-derived diffusible factors in vivo and in collagen gels, and guidance by
substrate-bound gradients of optimal shape, as might be relevant in the
retinotectal system.Two distinct spatial limits on guidance emerge: I mm for a
target-derived diffusible gradient, and I cm for a substrate-bound gradient.


PMID: 9641531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1934. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):225-6.

Visual perception: myths and mechanisms.

Linden DE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Hirnforschung, Frankfurt, Germany.


PMID: 9641530  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1935. Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):215-21.

Orphanin FQ/nociceptin: a role in pain and analgesia, but so much more.

Darland T(1), Heinricher MM, Grandy DK.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Cell and Developmental Biology, Oregon Health Sciences University,
Portland, USA.

The publication of the delta opioid receptor sequence led to the cloning of three
homologous receptors: the mu and kappa opioid receptors, and a novel opioid-like 
orphan receptor. The orphan receptor's endogenous ligand, a 17-amino-acid peptide
that resembles dynorphin, was named 'orphanin FQ' and 'nociceptin' (OFQ/N1-17).
The OFQ/N1-17 receptor is expressed widely in the nervous system, and it is
becoming clear that the peptide is likely to participate in a broad range of
physiological and behavioral functions. At the cellular level, OFQ/N1-17 has much
in common with the classical opioids; however, functional studies are now
revealing distinct actions of this peptide. Identified only two years ago,
OFQ/N1-17 has already attracted a great deal of attention. The number and
diversity of papers focused on OFQ/N1-17 at the recent meeting of the Society for
Neuroscience augur an exciting future for this new peptide.


PMID: 9610886  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1936. Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):207-15.

Extracellular space structure revealed by diffusion analysis.

Nicholson C(1), Syková E.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology and Neuroscience, New York University Medical Center, NY
10016, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Nov;21(11):469-70.

The structure of brain extracellular space resembles foam. Diffusing molecules
execute random movements that cause their collision with membranes and affect
their concentration distribution. By measuring this distribution, the volume
fraction (alpha) and the tortuosity (lambda) can be estimated. The volume
fraction indicates the relative amount of extracellular space and tortuosity is a
measure of hindrance of cellular obstructions. Diffusion measurements with
molecules <500 Mr show that alpha approximately 0.2 and lambda approximately 1.6,
although some brain regions are anisotropic. Molecules > or =3000 Mr show more
hindrance, but molecules of 70000 Mr can move through the extracellular space.
During stimulation, and in pathophysiological states, alpha and lambda change,
for example in severe ischemia alpha = 0.04 and lambda = 2.2. These data support 
the feasibility of extrasynaptic or volume transmission in the extracellular
space.


PMID: 9610885  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1937. Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):202-7.

The effects of steroid hormones on electrical activity of excitable cells.

Zakon HH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Zoology, Patterson Laboratory, University of Texas, Austin 78712, USA.

Steroid hormones influence the electrical activity of many neurons and effectors 
by regulating the transcription of their ion channels and neurotransmitter
receptors, or by modulating the activity of their channels and receptors through 
second messenger-coupled membrane receptors, or both. In this article, four cell 
types with known functions and distinct electrical activities are focused on to
illustrate how different steroids act synergistically with, or in opposition to, 
each other to modulate specific electrical phenomena such as spontaneous regular 
firing (GH3 cells, a pituitary cell line), action potential duration (electric
organ cells), and intrinsic excitability and sensitivity to neurotransmitters
(GnRH and opioidergic neurons).These examples illustrate how steroids might
influence electrical activity in neurons involved in more complex central
circuits.


PMID: 9610884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1938. Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):201.

The function of consciousness.

Cameron OG.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):58-62.


PMID: 9610883  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1939. Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):200-1.

The amygdala: myth or monolith?

Cassell MD.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Nov;20(11):517-23.


PMID: 9610882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1940. Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):195-200.

1898: the Golgi apparatus emerges from nerve cells.

Bentivoglio M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Anatomy and Histology, Medical Faculty, University of Verona,
Italy.

A century ago, Camillo Golgi discovered in neurons an intracellular network of
anastomosing threads, impregnated by the chromoargentic reaction he had devised
to stain the nervous tissue. This structure, designated by Golgi as 'internal
reticular apparatus', was soon detected in a wide variety of eukaryotic cells.
However, skepticism arose on the existence of the Golgi apparatus in the first
decades of this century, when it was fiercely debated whether this structure
represented a genuine new cell constituent or an artifact due to the deposit of
metallic impregnation on diverse cytoplasmic structures. The reality of the Golgi
apparatus became established unequivocally only with the application of electron 
microscopy; with the visualization of its fine structure, the apparatus finally
achieved the status of cytoplasmic organelle, and thus, linked with Golgi's name,
entered the modern era of investigation on its components, chemistry and
function.


PMID: 9610881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1941. Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):188-94.

Language within our grasp.

Rizzolatti G(1), Arbib MA.

Author information: 
(1)Istituto di Fisiologia Umana, Università di Parma, Italy.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Apr;22(4):151-2.

In monkeys, the rostral part of ventral premotor cortex (area F5) contains
neurons that discharge, both when the monkey grasps or manipulates objects and
when it observes the experimenter making similar actions. These neurons (mirror
neurons) appear to represent a system that matches observed events to similar,
internally generated actions, and in this way forms a link between the observer
and the actor. Transcranial magnetic stimulation and positron emission tomography
(PET) experiments suggest that a mirror system for gesture recognition also
exists in humans and includes Broca's area. We propose here that such an
observation/execution matching system provides a necessary bridge from'doing'
to'communicating',as the link between actor and observer becomes a link between
the sender and the receiver of each message.


PMID: 9610880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1942. Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):181-8.

Synaptic tagging: implications for late maintenance of hippocampal long-term
potentiation.

Frey U(1), Morris RG.

Author information: 
(1)Leibniz Institute for Neurobiology, Magdeburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1999 Jun;22(6):255-6.

A novel property of hippocampal LTP, 'variable persistence', has recently been
described that is, we argue, relevant to the role of LTP in information storage. 
Specifically, new results indicate that a particular pattern of synaptic
activation can give rise, either to a relatively short-lasting LTP, or to a
longer-lasting LTP as a function of the history of activation of the neuron. This
has led to the idea that the induction of LTP is associated with the setting of
a'synaptic tag' at activated synapses, whose role is to sequester
plasticity-related proteins that then serve to stabilize temporary synaptic
changes and so extend their persistence. In this article, we outline the synaptic
tag hypothesis, compare predictions it makes with those of other theories about
the persistence of LTP, and speculate about the cellular identity of the tag. In 
addition, we outline the requirement for aminergic activation to induce late LTP 
and consider the functional implications of the synaptic tag hypothesis with
respect to long-term memory.


PMID: 9610879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1943. Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):179-80.

Regeneration in the CNS: optimism mounts.

Fawcett JW(1), Geller HM.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology and MRC Cambridge Centre for Brain Repair, University of
Cambridge, UK.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Dec;21(12):515.


PMID: 9610878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1944. Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):177-8.

Development and evolution in nervous systems: development and evolution of ideas.

Butler AB(1), Molnár Z.

Author information: 
(1)Krasnow Institute for Advanced Study, George Mason University, Fairfax, VA
22030-4444, USA.


PMID: 9610877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1945. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):167-74.

Pro-epileptic changes in synaptic function can be accompanied by pro-epileptic
changes in neuronal excitability.

Wheal HV(1), Bernard C, Chad JE, Cannon RC.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Research Group, School of Biological Sciences, University of
Southampton, UK.

Repetitive sensory input, stroboscopic lights or repeated sounds can induce
epileptic seizures in susceptible individuals. In order to understand the process
we have to consider multiple factors. The output of a set of neurones is
determined by the amount of excitatory synaptic input, the degree of positive
feedback and their inherent electrical excitability, which can be modified by
synaptic inhibition. Recent research has shown that it is possible to separate
these phenomena, and that they do not always behave in unison.


PMID: 9554727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1946. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):159-67.

How well do we understand the cochlea?

Nobili R(1), Mammano F, Ashmore J.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Fisica, Università di Padova, Italy.

As sensory cells, hair cells within the mammalian inner ear convert sounds into
receptor potentials when their projecting stereocilia are deflected. The organ of
Corti of the cochlea contains two types of hair cell, inner and outer hair cells,
which differ in function. It has been appreciated for over two decades that
although inner hair cells act as the primary receptor cell for the auditory
system, the outer hair cells can also act as motor cells. Outer hair cells
respond to variation in potential, and change length at rates unequalled by other
motile cells. The forces generated by outer hair cells are capable of altering
the delicate mechanics of the cochlear partition, increasing hearing sensitivity 
and frequency selectivity. The discovery of such hair-cell motility has modified 
the view of the cochlea as a simple frequency analyser into one where it is an
active non-linear filter that allows only the prominent features of acoustic
signals to be transmitted to the acoustic nerve by the inner hair cells. In this 
view, such frequency selectivity arises through the suppression of adjacent
frequencies, a mechanical effect equivalent to lateral inhibition in neural
structures. These processes are explained by the interplay between the
hydrodynamic interactions among different parts of the cochlear partition and the
effective non-linear behaviour of the cell motor.


PMID: 9554726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1947. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):154-9.

Do chemokines mediate leukocyte recruitment in post-traumatic CNS inflammation?

Ransohoff RM(1), Tani M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, The Mellen Center for Multiple Sclerosis Treatment and
Research, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195, USA.

Hematogenous leukocytes infiltrate the CNS after inflammatory stimuli, including 
infection, mechanical trauma and excitotoxic neuronal necrosis. However,the role 
of leukocytic inflammation in promoting or hindering tissue repair is poorly
understood. Identification of signals that lead to leukocyte recruitment and
activation is essential for the designing of interventions that modulate
inflammation, thus improving neurological outcome. Chemokines are small
pleiotropic chemoattractant cytokines whose target specificity suggests an
important role in determining the cellular composition of inflammatory
infiltrates. Chemokine expression profiles in the CNS during autoimmune and
post-traumatic inflammation correlate well with the composition of leukocyte
infiltrates, and expression studies in systems such as transgenic mice, suggest
that chemokines have potent functional attributes in CNS physiology. We propose
that selective chemokine expression by CNS cells is crucial for post-traumatic
leukocyte accumulation.


PMID: 9554725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1948. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):148-54.

Subunit interaction sites in voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels: role in channel
function.

Walker D(1), De Waard M.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U464, Institut Fédératif Jean Roche, Faculté de Médecine Nord,
Marseille, France.

Voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels are heteromeric complexes found in the plasma
membrane of virtually all cell types and show a high level of
electrophysiological and pharmacological diversity. Associated with the
pore-forming alpha 1 subunit are the membrane anchored, largely extracellular
alpha2-delta, the cytoplasmic beta and sometimes a transmembrane gamma subunit;
these subunits dramatically influence the properties and surface expression of
these channels. Effects vary depending on subunit isoforms, suggesting that
functional diversity of native channels reflects heterogeneity of combinations.
Interaction sites between subunits have been identified and advances have been
made in our understanding of the molecular basis of functional effects of the
auxiliary subunits, their capacity to be regulated by G proteins, and their
interaction with related cellular systems.


PMID: 9554724  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1949. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):146-7.

Schizophrenia as failure of hemispheric dominance for language.

Mackay AV.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):339-43.


PMID: 9554723  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1950. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):145-6; author reply 146-7.

Schizophrenia as failure of hemispheric dominance for language.

Bradshaw JL.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):339-43.


PMID: 9554722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1951. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):145; author reply 146-7.

Schizophrenia as failure of hemispheric dominance for language.

Södersten P, Sederholm F.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):339-43.


PMID: 9554721  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1952. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):137-45.

Getting the most out of noise in the central nervous system.

Traynelis SF(1), Jaramillo F.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322-3090, USA.

Rather than merely a nuisance, noise in biological systems is a useful property. 
Before patch-clamp methods were invented, analysis of membrane current noise
provided the first solid, if indirect, evidence for the existence of
ion-conducting pores with discrete conductance levels. Although supplanted by
single-channel recording techniques for most tasks, analysis of current membrane 
noise remains useful for certain problems, such as determining the properties of 
channels with rapid kinetics that open with a high probability and desensitize,
channels localized at synapses, channels with an unusually low unitary
conductance and open-channel noise. In addition, the role of noise in information
processing in the CNS is increasingly being recognized. In this article, we
summarize the analysis of current membrane noise with an emphasis on what the
technique is still useful for, and discuss the role for noise in information
processing.


PMID: 9554720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1953. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):135-6.

How are neurons specified: master or positional control?

Goetz M.


PMID: 9554719  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1954. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Mar;21(3):126-30.

New perspectives on the function of myelin galactolipids.

Coetzee T(1), Suzuki K, Popko B.

Author information: 
(1)UNC Neuroscience Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill 27599, USA.

A defining feature of the vertebrate nervous system is the ensheathment of axons 
by myelin, a multilamellar membrane containing a small group of proteins and an
abundance of the galactolipid galactocerebroside (GalC) and its sulfated
derivative sulfatide. Several in vitro studies have suggested that these
galactolipids transduce developmental signals, facilitate protein trafficking and
stabilize membranes. In addition, mice lacking the ability to synthesize GalC or 
sulfatide form dysfunctional and unstable myelin. These findings suggest that the
galactolipids are essential components of myelin, and that functional and
structural properties of myelin result from the combined contributions of
galactolipids and proteins.


PMID: 9530920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1955. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Mar;21(3):117-25.

The macro- and microarchitectures of the ligand-binding domain of glutamate
receptors.

Paas Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurobiologie Moléculaire, UA CNRS D1284, Département des Biotechnologies,
Institut Pasteur, Paris, France.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 1998 Apr;21(4):175.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Nov;21(11):468-9.

Over the last decade, a large body of information regarding the amino acid
sequences and tertiary structures of many proteins has accumulated. Subtle
similarities in sequence patterns identified between glutamate receptors and
bacterial periplasmic substrate-binding proteins have suggested that structural
kinship exists between these protein families. Many of the bacterial periplasmic 
binding proteins but none of the glutamate receptors have been crystallized so
far. The following article reviews how the resemblance between these two protein 
families led to computer-assisted structural models of crucial elements involved 
in ligand binding by various glutamate receptors. A plausible dynamic model of
the molecular mechanism of activation and desensitization of glutamate-receptor
channels is also discussed.


PMID: 9530919  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1956. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Mar;21(3):114-7.

CD95-CD95L: can the brain learn from the immune system?

Becher B(1), Barker PA, Owens T, Antel JP.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroimmunology Unit, Montreal Neurological Institute, McGill University,
Quebec, Canada.

Members of the tumor necrosis factor/nerve growth factor receptor superfamily of 
cell-surface molecules can play the dual role of mediating either cytotoxicity or
cell survival, both in the immune system and in the nervous system. A member of
this superfamily, CD95 (also known as ApoI or Fas), was initially identified in
the immune system and has been shown to mediate receptor-dependent programmed
cell death and to be expressed in the nervous system. In neurodegenerative
disorders, CD95-CD95 ligand expression on glial cells might precede
receptor-mediated apoptosis by cells of the CNS. It is now being recognized that 
CD95 signaling by immune cells mediates effects other than apoptosis, such as
cell survival and under inflammatory conditions expression of this protein
promotes neural-immune interactions. Both neuroscientists and immunologists can
contribute to defining the mechanisms underlying these divergent effects and
utilize such knowledge to aid understanding of cell death and survival.


PMID: 9530918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1957. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Mar;21(3):107-14.

Strategies utilized by migrating neurons of the postnatal vertebrate forebrain.

Goldman SA(1), Luskin MB.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology and Neuroscience, Cornell University Medical College, New
York, NY 10021, USA.

Structural brain repair has become a possibility with the identification and
characterization of persistent neuronal progenitor cells in both the neonatal and
adult brain. However, despite recent advances in the identification, propagation 
and expansion of these cells, they will not be useful therapeutically until
methods are available for directing or delivering them to sites of need. As a
result, the natural history and induction of neuronal migration into adult brain 
tissue has assumed new importance in clinical neurobiology. In this review we
consider the cellular and molecular bases of neuronal migration into the
postnatal forebrain. In particular, we discuss two natural paradigms of postnatal
neuronal recruitment: radial-cell-directed neuronal migration to the songbird
neostriatum, and neurophilic migration to the rodent olfactory bulb. In each, we 
will focus on the dynamic interactions between the migrants, their cellular
guides and the local environment, and the effect of those interactions on
migrational success.


PMID: 9530917  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1958. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Mar;21(3):106.

A novel signaling system from the synapse to the nucleus.

Routtenberg A, Meberg PM.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):252-8.


PMID: 9530916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1959. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Mar;21(3):102-5.

Psychiatric genetics: search for phenotypes.

Leboyer M(1), Bellivier F, Nosten-Bertrand M, Jouvent R, Pauls D, Mallet J.

Author information: 
(1)Service de psychiatrie adulte, Hôpital Pitié-Salpétrière, Paris, France.

Failure to obtain convincing results in psychiatric genetics can partly be
attributed to the fact that progress in molecular biology and genetic
epidemiology has not been followed by an equivalent development in phenotypic
description. Instead of relying entirely on classical nosological approaches, we 
argue that identifying more homogeneous forms of diseases through a'candidate
symptom approach' among affected subjects and an endophenotype approach that
identifies sub-clinical traits among non-affected relatives might yield better
results. Examples where these strategies have already been fruitful when applied 
to complex diseases are presented in this review. Focusing on vulnerability
traits might stimulate the redefinition of traditional psychiatric syndromes and 
help to bridge the gap between clinical and experimental approaches.


PMID: 9530915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1960. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Mar;21(3):97-102.

Synaptic metaplasticity and the local charge effect in postsynaptic densities.

Tompa P(1), Friedrich P.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Enzymology, Biological Research Center, Hungarian Academy of
Sciences, Budapest.

Synaptic plasticity might be one of the elementary processes that underlies
higher brain functions, such as learning and memory. Intriguingly, the capacity
of a synapse for plastic changes itself displays marked variation or plasticity. 
This higher-order plasticity, or metaplasticity, appears to depend on the same
macromolecules as plasticity, most notably the NMDA receptor and Ca2+/calmodulin 
kinase II; yet we do not understand metaplasticity in molecular terms.
Metaplasticity has a feedback-inhibition character that confers stability to
synaptic patterns, whereas in plasticity, the molecular events implicated tend to
have an opposite effect. As a resolution to this difference, we suggest that
metaplasticity be considered in a biophysical context. It has been shown that
autophosphorylation of Ca2+/calmodulin kinase II in postsynaptic densities
generates changes in the local electrostatic potential sufficient to affect the
direction of synaptic plasticity. We propose that this finding could help explain
both the puzzling abundance of Ca2+/calmodulin kinase II in the postsynaptic
density and the metaplasticity of synaptic transmission.


PMID: 9530914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1961. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Mar;21(3):95-7.

Mitochondria - the Kraken wakes!

Miller RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacological and Physiological Sciences, The University of Chicago,
IL 60637, USA.


PMID: 9530913  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1962. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Mar;21(3):91-4.

The making, changing, and breaking of contacts.

Brösamle C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, University of Zürich, Switzerland.


PMID: 9530912  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1963. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):81-8.

Diversity of structure and function at mammalian central synapses.

Walmsley B(1), Alvarez FJ, Fyffe RE.

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Division, John Curtin School of Medical Research, Australian
National University, Canberra, ACT.

Our appreciation of the relationship between synaptic structure and function, and
in particular our understanding of quantal synaptic transmission, is derived from
classical studies on the neuromuscular junction. However, physiological studies
of quantal transmission at mammalian CNS synapses have produced a variety of
results, and thus no consensus of opinion has emerged. This variability could be 
due, in part, to experimental and analytical limitations or to differences in the
structural and functional features of central synapses, or both. Some of the
experimental limitations have recently been overcome by the use of novel
preparations that permit direct measurement of quantal synaptic events in the
CNS. Although these studies reveal similarities between the synaptic mechanisms
of the neuromuscular junction and CNS synapses, important differences and
specializations are also evident. The purpose of this review is to highlight the 
structural and functional diversity of synapses in the mammalian CNS, and to
discuss the potential relevance of structural features to synaptic function.


PMID: 9498304  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1964. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):75-80.

Matrix metalloproteinases and diseases of the CNS.

Yong VW(1), Krekoski CA, Forsyth PA, Bell R, Edwards DR.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Oncology, University of Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 2001 Jan;24(1):8-9.

Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are increasingly being implicated in the
pathogenesis of several CNS diseases. In multiple sclerosis, MMPs could be
responsible for the influx of inflammatory mononuclear cells into the CNS,
contribute to myelin destruction and disrupt the integrity of the blood-brain
barrier; in Alzheimer's disease, MMPs might mediate the deposition of amyloid
beta-proteins; and MMPs are known to contribute to the invasiveness of malignant 
glioma cells and might regulate their angiogenic capacity. Nonetheless, MMPs
could also have beneficial roles in recovery from CNS injury.Therefore, both the 
identity of the MMP and its cellular origin could determine whether disease
pathogenesis or regeneration occurs, and thus synthetic MMP inhibitors might be
valuable for treating some CNS diseases.


PMID: 9498303  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1965. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):71-5.

Neuroendocrine bases of monogamy.

Young LJ(1), Wang Z, Insel TR.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of
Medicine, and the Yerkes Regional Primate Research Center, Atlanta, GA 30322,
USA.

A number of studies have implicated the neurohypophyseal peptides oxytocin and
vasopressin in the central mediation of complex social behaviors, including
affiliation, parental care and territorial aggression. Research on a monogamous
rodent, the prairie vole (Microtus ochrogaster), suggests that these
neuropeptides are also involved in the control of several behaviors associated
with monogamy, including pair bonding, paternal care and mate guarding.
Comparative studies using several species of vole have identified
species-specific patterns of oxytocin- and vasopressin-receptor expression in the
brain that appear to be associated with a monogamous versus non-monogamous social
structure. Molecular studies suggest that changes in the regulation of oxytocin- 
and vasopressin-receptor gene expression underlie these species differences in
receptor distribution and might provide a mechanism for the evolution of monogamy
in voles.


PMID: 9498302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1966. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):64-71.

Cajal-Retzius cells and the development of the neocortex.

Marín-Padilla M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pathology and Pediatrics, Dartmouth Medical School, Hanover, NH 03755,
USA.

The dual origin, structural organization, and evolving ascending stratification
of the mammalian neocortex are explored from a developmental perspective. Layer I
and subplate (layer VII) zone of the neocortex evolve first from a primordial
plexiform neuropil that is established throughout the non-olfactory telencephalon
and that is common to amphibians, reptiles and mammals. The remaining laminations
(strata) of the neocortex evolve later, between layer I and the subplate zone,
from the cortical plate (CP), which represents a multilayered mammalian
evolutionary feature. The attraction of CP neurons towards layer I, their
progressive ascending (inside-out) placement, common early differentiation stage 
(regardless of size, location, cortical depth, or eventual functional role, or
all of these), and the unique morphologic features of its pyramidal neuron are
developmental processes controlled by layer I and its Cajal-Retzius cells. Based 
on the role of these early neurons and of layer I, a new theory of neocortical
cytoarchitectonics and nomenclature is proposed to explain the basic structural
and functional organization of the mammalian neocortex, the morphology of its
pyramidal cells, and the addition of new pyramidal cell strata that characterize 
its phylogenetic evolution.


PMID: 9498301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1967. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):63-4.

Nitric oxide and long-term depression in the cerebellum.

Crépel F.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jul;20(7):298-303.


PMID: 9498300  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1968. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):63.

Do depth-rotation-sensitive neurones exist?

Duysens J, Schaafsma SJ.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):350-7.


PMID: 9498299  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1969. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):58-62.

Metaphors of consciousness and attention in the brain.

Baars BJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Wright Institute, Berkeley, CA 94704, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):201.

Scientific metaphors have long provided heuristic tools for approaching novel
problems.Today, the neurobiology of consciousness and attention is a central
concern, presenting formidable conceptual and empirical challenges. Many current 
ideas fit the broad theme of a theater metaphor; this idea can be worked out in
detail, resulting in relevant, testable hypotheses.


PMID: 9498298  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1970. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):53-7.

Modification of ion homeostasis by lipid peroxidation: roles in neuronal
degeneration and adaptive plasticity.

Mattson MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sanders-Brown Research Center on Aging and the Dept of Anatomy and
Neurobiology, University of Kentucky, Lexington 40536, USA.

Oxyradicals attack double bonds of unsaturated fatty acids in cell membranes in a
process called membrane lipid peroxidation (MLP).This process occurs in many
different acute and chronic neurodegenerative conditions, and to a lesser extent 
during normal physiological activity in neuronal circuits. It can modify
neurotransmitter release and uptake, ion-channel activity, the function of
ion-motive ATPases and glucose transporters,and the coupling of cell-surface
receptors to GTP-binding proteins. MLP can also impair mitochondrial function and
promote a cascade of events that culminates in apoptotic cell death. The lipid
peroxidation product 4-hydroxynonenal might play a central role in MLP-induced
alterations in plasma membrane and mitochondrial protein functions. The
modification of processes such as outgrowth of neurites and long-term
potentiation of synaptic transmission by agents that suppress or promote MLP
suggests roles for subtoxic levels of MLP in neuronal plasticity.


PMID: 9498297  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1971. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):43-9.

Beta-amyloid peptides as direct cholinergic neuromodulators: a missing link?

Auld DS(1), Kar S, Quirion R.

Author information: 
(1)Douglas Hospital Research Center and the Dept of Neurology, McGill University,
Montréal, Québec, Canada.

Beta-Amyloid peptide (Abeta) is found in diffuse and focal deposits throughout
the brain from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Another feature of AD is the
widespread degeneration and dysfunction of the basal-forebrain cholinergic
system. Until now, it has been unclear how these features of AD might be related.
Recent reports, however, suggest that Abeta can potently inhibit various
cholinergic neurotransmitter functions independently of apparent neurotoxicity.
This capacity of Abeta might contribute to the vulnerability of selected
cholinergic neuronal populations in AD. Moreover, the high potency (picomolar to 
nanomolar concentrations) of these effects and the secretion of Abeta by brain
cells indicate that Abeta-induced cholinergic hypoactivity might have
physiological in addition to pathological significance.


PMID: 9464686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1972. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):38-43.

Amphibians provide new insights into taste-bud development.

Northcutt RG(1), Barlow LA.

Author information: 
(1)Scripps Institute of Oceanography, Dept of Neurosciences, University of
California, San Diego, La Jolla 92093, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):337-8.

Until recently, the predominant model of taste-bud development was one of neural 
induction: ingrowing sensory fibers were thought to induce taste-bud
differentiation late in embryonic development. Recent experimental studies,
however, show that the development of taste buds is independent of their
innervation. In amphibian embryos, the ability to generate taste buds is an
intrinsic feature of the oropharyngeal epithelium long before the region becomes 
innervated. These studies indicate that patterning of the oropharyngeal
epithelium occurs during gastrulation, and suggest that taste buds or their
progenitors play the dominant role in the development of their own innervation.


PMID: 9464685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1973. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):32-8.

Physiological aspects of information processing in the basal ganglia of normal
and parkinsonian primates.

Bergman H(1), Feingold A, Nini A, Raz A, Slovin H, Abeles M, Vaadia E.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology and the Center for Neural Computation, The Hebrew
University-Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel.

There are two views as to the character of basal-ganglia processing - processing 
by segregated parallel circuits or by information sharing. To distinguish between
these views, we studied the simultaneous activity of neurons in the output stage 
of the basal ganglia with cross-correlation techniques. The firing of neurons in 
the globus pallidus of normal monkeys is almost always uncorrelated. However,
after dopamine depletion and induction of parkinsonism by treatment with
1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), oscillatory activity
appeared and the firing of many neurons became correlated. We conclude that the
normal dopaminergic system supports segregation of the functional subcircuits of 
the basal ganglia, and that a breakdown of this independent processing is a
hallmark of Parkinson's disease.


PMID: 9464684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1974. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):28-32.

Paying attention to the thalamic reticular nucleus.

Guillery RW(1), Feig SL, Lozsádi DA.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, Madison 53706,
USA.

The thalamic reticular nucleus can be divided into a number of sectors, each
concerned with a different function (sight, touch, hearing, movement or 'limbic' 
functions). Each sector is connected to more than one thalamic nucleus and to
more than one cortical area, and each sector has topographically mapped
connections with the thalamus and the cortex. We consider the known details of
these connections and show: (1) that they are not the same for each sector; (2)
that the reticular nucleus serves as a nexus, where several functionally related 
cortical areas and thalamic nuclei can interact, modifying thalamocortical
transmission through the inhibitory connections that go from the reticular cells 
to thalamic relay cells; and (3) that we need much more detailed information
about these highly organized connections before we can understand exactly how the
thalamic reticular nucleus might be influencing thalamocortical pathways in
attentional mechanisms or in other, as yet undefined, roles.


PMID: 9464683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1975. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):22-7.

Agrin orchestrates synaptic differentiation at the vertebrate neuromuscular
junction.

Ruegg MA(1), Bixby JL.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology, Biozentrum, University of Basel, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Oct;21(10):426-7.

The synapse is a key structure that is involved in perception, learning and
memory. Understanding the sequence of steps that is involved in establishing
synapses during development might also help to understand mechanisms that cause
changes in synapses during learning and memory. For practical reasons, most of
our current knowledge of synapse development is derived from studies of the
vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Several lines of evidence strongly
suggest that motor axons release the molecule agrin to induce the formation of
the postsynaptic apparatus in muscle fibers. Recent advances implicate proteins
such as dystroglycan, MuSK, and rapsyn in the transduction of agrin signals.
Recently, additional functions of agrin have been discovered, including the
upregulation of gene transcription in myonuclei and the control of presynaptic
differentiation. Agrin therefore appears to play a unique role in controlling
synaptic differentiation on both sides of the NMJ.


PMID: 9464682  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1976. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):20-1.

Behavioral measurement in perspective?

Sussman D.


PMID: 9464681  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1977. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):19-20.

Cocaine abuse and corticogenesis.

Lidow MS.


PMID: 9464680  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1978. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):15-9.

Alzheimer's disease: a re-examination of the amyloid hypothesis.

Neve RL(1), Robakis NK.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, McLean Hospital, Belmont, MA 02178, 
USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder of the brain
characterized by the presence of neuritic amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary
tangles. Although it most frequently occurs in the elderly, this disorder also
afflicts younger patients. The majority of AD cases are late in onset, lack an
obvious genetic etiology and are characterized as sporadic, whereas a small
percentage of cases are early in onset and segregate strongly within families
(FAD), suggesting a genetic etiology. During the past decade it has become
evident that the clinical and histopathological phenotypes of this disease are
caused by heterogeneous genetic, and probably environmental, factors. Indeed,
several genes have been identified that together appear to cause most of the
familial forms of the disease, whereas the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein 
E (apoE) gene has been shown to be a significant risk factor for the late onset
forms of AD. Despite this evidence of heterogeneity, it has been suggested that
all of these factors work through a common pathway by triggering the deposition
of amyloid in the brain, which is ultimately responsible for the neuronal
degeneration of AD. This is a controversial theory, however, primarily because
there is a poor correlation between the concentrations and distribution of
amyloid depositions in the brain and several parameters of AD pathology,
including degree of dementia, loss of synapses, loss of neurons and abnormalities
of the cytoskeleton.


PMID: 9464679  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1979. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):8-14.

Extrasynaptic glutamate spillover in the hippocampus: evidence and implications.

Kullmann DM(1), Asztely F.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Clinical Neurology, Institute of Neurology, London, UK.

In the mammalian brain most excitatory transmission is mediated by glutamate
binding to AMPA and NMDA receptors. These receptors have markedly different
biophysical properties, and at synapses in the CAI region of the hippocampus they
play complementary roles in long-term potentiation (LTP): while postsynaptic NMDA
receptor activation is necessary for the induction of this form of plasticity,
AMPA receptors play a larger role in its expression. Recent studies in
hippocampal slices have revealed a further striking difference in the behaviour
of the two receptor types: NMDA receptors consistently sense a larger number of
quanta of glutamate released from presynaptic terminals than do AMPA receptors.
Two alternative explanations for this are either that AMPA receptors are
functionally silent at a proportion of synapses (although they can be uncovered
by LTP), or that glutamate can spill over from neighbouring synapses and
selectively activate NMDA (but not AMPA) receptors. Both of these competing
hypotheses have extensive implications for the mechanisms of expression of LTP.
Extrasynaptic glutamate diffusion appears to depend critically on the recording
temperature, but if excitatory synapses are sufficiently close for cross-talk to 
occur under physiological conditions, it could have profound implications for the
specificity of synaptic communication in the brain.


PMID: 9464678  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1980. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):2-7.

Calcium and neuronal ageing.

Verkhratsky A(1), Toescu EC.

Author information: 
(1)Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, Berlin-Buch, Germany.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jul;21(7):286; author reply 287.

Brain ageing is associated with a marked decline in mental faculties. One
hypothesis postulates that sustained changes in the regulation of intracellular
Ca2+ concentration, [Ca2+]i, are the major cause of neuronal degeneration. This
'calcium hypothesis' is supported by demonstrations of the impairment in aged
neurones of molecular cascades that regulate [Ca2+]i. However, the number of
direct measurements of [Ca2+]i in senescent neurones is limited, and the
hypothesis cannot be regarded as fully confirmed. Furthermore, physiological
brain ageing, at least in certain regions, need not necessarily be a degenerative
process accompanied by neuronal loss. Pharmacological manipulation of Ca2+ entry 
has been shown to be effective in increasing some aspects of cognitive function
of the aged brain. Therefore, further exploration of Ca2+ homeostasis and
signalling might reveal the mechanisms involved in the age-dependent decline in
neuronal performance, and might aid the search for new therapeutic treatments.


PMID: 9464677  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1981. Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jan;21(1):1-2.

Something in the air: new vistas on olfaction.

Brennan PA(1), Friedrich RW.

Author information: 
(1)Sub-Dept of Animal Behaviour, University of Cambridge, Madingley, UK.


PMID: 9464676  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1982. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):558-9.

The 'amyloid cascade hypothesis' of AD: decoy or real McCoy?

Davis JN 2nd, Chisholm JC.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Apr;20(4):154-9.


PMID: 9416666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1983. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):588-94.

The complex structure of a simple memory.

Wolpaw JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wadsworth Center, New York State Department of Health, NY, USA.

Operant conditioning of the vertebrate H-reflex, which appears to be closely
related to learning that occurs in real life, is accompanied by plasticity at
multiple sites. Change occurs in the firing threshold and conduction velocity of 
the motoneuron, in several different synaptic terminal populations on the
motoneuron, and probably in interneurons as well. Change also occurs
contralaterally. The corticospinal tract probably has an essential role in
producing this plasticity. While certain of these changes, such as that in the
firing threshold, are likely to contribute to the rewarded behavior (primary
plasticity), others might preserve previously learned behaviors (compensatory
plasticity), or are simply activity-driven products of change elsewhere (reactive
plasticity). As these data and those from other simple vertebrate and
invertebrate models indicate, a complex pattern of plasticity appears to be the
necessary and inevitable outcome of even the simplest learning.


PMID: 9416673  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1984. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):583-8.

Principles of acoustic motion detection in animals and man.

Wagner H(1), Kautz D, Poganiatz I.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Biologie II, RWTH Aachen, Germany.

Motion provides one of the most important cues for survival, because it helps to 
break the camouflage of a predator or a prey and because it allows predictions
about the future path of an object. Recent data on the processing of acoustic
motion have yielded some astonishing findings, suggesting that the
psychophysical, neurological and neurophysiological mechanisms underlying the
detection and representation of acoustic motion are quite similar to those
underlying the detection and representation in other modalities, especially in
vision. A further comparison of these similarities and differences with respect
to the different environmental constraints posed for the different modalities may
help in understanding general problems associated with motion computations.


PMID: 9416672  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1985. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):578-83.

Molecular biology of insect neuronal GABA receptors.

Hosie AM(1), Aronstein K, Sattelle DB, ffrench-Constant RH.

Author information: 
(1)Babraham Institute, Dept of Zoology, Cambridge, UK.

Ionotropic gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors are distributed throughout
the nervous systems of many insect species. As with their vertebrate
counterparts, GABAA receptors and GABAC receptors, the binding of GABA to
ionotropic insect receptors elicits a rapid, transient opening of anion-selective
ion channels which is generally inhibitory. Although insect and vertebrate GABA
receptors share a number of structural and functional similarities, their
pharmacology differs in several aspects. Recent studies of cloned Drosophila
melanogaster GABA receptors have clarified the contribution of particular
subunits to these differences. Insect ionotropic GABA receptors are also the
target of numerous insecticides and an insecticide-resistant form of a Drosophila
GABA-receptor subunit has enhanced our understanding of the structure-function
relationship of one aspect of pharmacology common to both insect and vertebrate
GABA receptors, namely antagonism by the plant-derived toxin picrotoxinin.


PMID: 9416671  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1986. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):570-7.

Reactive astrocytes: cellular and molecular cues to biological function.

Ridet JL(1), Malhotra SK, Privat A, Gage FH.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U. 336, Université Montpellier II, Montpellier, France.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 1998 Feb;21(2):80.

For several decades, the reactive gliosis that occurs after an injury to the CNS 
has been considered one of the major impediments to axonal regeneration.
Nevertheless, recent studies have suggested that in certain conditions, reactive 
astrocytes may provide a permissive substratum to support axonal regrowth. The
important criteria, allowing for the distinction between permissive and
non-permissive gliosis, are the ultrastructural 3D organization of the scar and
more importantly the recognition molecules expressed by reactive astrocytes.
Reactive astrocytes express surface molecules and produce various neurotrophic
factors and cytokines. The latter in turn might modulate the production of
recognition molecules by reactive astrocytes, allowing them to support
post-lesional axonal regrowth. Although numerous recent articles have focused on 
cytokines and cell adhesion molecules, scant attention has been paid to reactive 
astrocytes. Reactive astrocytes should be considered a key element, like neurons,
of a dynamic environment, thus forming with neurons a functional unit involved in
homeostasis, plasticity and neurotransmission. Attempts are in progress to
identify molecular markers for reactive astrocytes.


PMID: 9416670  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1987. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):565-70.

Mechanisms of CNS response to systemic immune challenge: the febrile response.

Elmquist JK(1), Scammell TE, Saper CB.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology and Program in Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School, Beth
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

The acute-phase reaction is the multisystem response to acute inflammation. The
central nervous system (CNS) mediates a coordinated set of autonomic, endocrine
and behavioral responses that constitute the cerebral component of the
acute-phase reaction. However, the mechanisms of immune signaling of the CNS
remain controversial. Emerging evidence indicates that different parts of the
acute-phase reaction are initiated by distinct mechanisms and in different brain 
regions. Cytokines produced as a result of local infections (for example, in the 
abdominal or thoracic cavities) might activate vagal sensory fibers, resulting in
sickness behavior and fevers. Additionally, circulating immune stimuli might
activate meningeal macrophages and perivascular microglia along the borders of
the brain, eliciting the local production of prostaglandins and responses such as
fever, anorexia, sleepiness, and activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal 
(HPA) axis. The biological importance of these responses might favor the
existence of multiple parallel CNS pathways that are engaged by cytokines.


PMID: 9416669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1988. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):560-4.

The body in the brain: neural bases of corporeal awareness.

Berlucchi G(1), Aglioti S.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Neurologiche, Università di Verona, Italy.

Recent studies have begun to unravel the brain mechanisms that underlie the
mental representation of the body. Imitation of movements by neonates suggests an
implicit knowledge of the body structure that antedates the adult body schema.
This can include inanimate objects that bear systematic relations to the body, as
shown by the elimination from self awareness of a body part and its associated
paraphernalia after selective brain lesions. Dynamic aspects of the body schema
are revealed by spontaneous sensations from a lost body part as well as by
orderly phantom sensations elicited by stimulation of body areas away from the
amputation line and even by visual stimulation. The mechanisms of the body schema
exhibit stability, since some brain regions seem permanently committed to
representing the corresponding body parts in conscious awareness, and plasticity,
since brain regions deprived of their natural inputs from a body part become
reactive to inputs from other body parts.


PMID: 9416668  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1989. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):559.

Animal electricity as part of the 'one great whole'.

Meyer-Rochow VB.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):239-42.


PMID: 9416667  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1990. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):557-8.

The functional neuroanatomy of episodic memory retrieval.

Markowitsch HJ.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 May;20(5):213-8.


PMID: 9416665  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1991. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):553-7.

The brain has a body: adaptive behavior emerges from interactions of nervous
system, body and environment.

Chiel HJ(1), Beer RD.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106-7080,
USA.

Studies of mechanisms of adaptive behavior generally focus on neurons and
circuits. But adaptive behavior also depends on interactions among the nervous
system, body and environment: sensory preprocessing and motor post-processing
filter inputs to and outputs from the nervous system; co-evolution and
co-development of nervous system and periphery create matching and
complementarity between them; body structure creates constraints and
opportunities for neural control; and continuous feedback between nervous system,
body and environment are essential for normal behavior. This broader view of
adaptive behavior has been a major underpinning of ecological psychology and has 
influenced behavior-based robotics. Computational neuroethology, which jointly
models neural control and periphery of animals, is a promising methodology for
understanding adaptive behavior.


PMID: 9416664  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1992. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):551-2.

The first confluence of mediterranean neuroscience.

Arnth-Jensen N(1).

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, University of Oxford, UK.


PMID: 9416663  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1993. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):549-51.

Connections between neuroscientists from Europe and Latin America reinforced.

Galarraga E(1), Kröger S.

Author information: 
(1)Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, D.F. México.


PMID: 9416662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1994. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Nov;20(11):538-43.

Analyzing the functional consequences of transmitter complexity.

Brezina V(1), Weiss KR.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology and Biophysics, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York,
NY 10029, USA.

Neurons and other cells are regulated by a great multiplicity of
neurotransmitters, modulators, hormones and other chemical messengers, which,
through complex networks of extensively diverging and converging pathways, exert 
a multiplicity of effects. How do we analyze the functioning of such a complex
network? If the effects of a transmitter depend on the presence of many other
transmitters, how can we predict what they will be? If multiple transmitters act 
through the same network, how can their actions be specific? If they converge on 
the same effects, are some of the transmitters redundant? Why are there so many
transmitters? Such questions can be addressed using an analytical approach that
examines, qualitatively or quantitatively, how the operation of the network
globally maps a multidimensional input space of transmitters to a
multidimensional output space of effects.


PMID: 9364669  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1995. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Nov;20(11):530-8.

Immortalized neural progenitor cells for CNS gene transfer and repair.

Martínez-Serrano A(1), Björklund A.

Author information: 
(1)Center of Molecular Biology Severo Ochoa, Autonomous University of
Madrid-CSIC, Spain.

Immortalized multipotent neural stem and progenitor cells have emerged as a
highly convenient source of tissue for genetic manipulation and ex vivo gene
transfer to the CNS. Recent studies show that these cells, which can be
maintained and genetically transduced as cell lines in culture, can survive,
integrate and differentiate into both neurons and glia after transplantation to
the intact or damaged brain. Progenitors engineered to secrete trophic factors,
or to produce neurotransmitter-related or metabolic enzymes can be made to
repopulate diseased or injured brain areas, thus providing a new potential
therapeutic tool for the blockade of neurodegenerative processes and reversal of 
behavioural deficits in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases. With further
technical improvements, the use of immortalized neural progenitors may bring us
closer to the challenging goal of targeted and effective CNS repair.


PMID: 9364668  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1996. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Nov;20(11):523-9.

GABAA, NMDA and AMPA receptors: a developmentally regulated 'ménage à trois'.

Ben-Ari Y(1), Khazipov R, Leinekugel X, Caillard O, Gaiarsa JL.

Author information: 
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, Hôpital de
Port-Royal, Paris, France.

The main ionotropic receptors (GABAA, NMDA and AMPA) display a sequential
participation in neuronal excitation in the neonatal hippocampus. GABA, the
principal inhibitory transmitter in the adult CNS, acts as an excitatory
transmitter in early postnatal stage. Glutamatergic synaptic transmission is
first purely NMDA-receptor based and lacks functional AMPA receptors. Therefore, 
initially glutamatergic synapses are 'silent' at resting membrane potential, NMDA
channels being blocked by Mg2+. However, when GABA and glutamatergic synapses are
coactivated during the physiological patterns of activity, GABAA receptors can
facilitate the activation of NMDA receptors, playing the role conferred to AMPA
receptors later on in development. Determining the mechanisms underlying the
development of this 'ménage à trois' will shed light not only on the wide range
of trophic roles of glutamate and GABA in the developing brain, but also on the
significance of the transition from neonatal to adult forms of plasticity.


PMID: 9364667  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1997. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Nov;20(11):517-23.

Organization of intra-amygdaloid circuitries in the rat: an emerging framework
for understanding functions of the amygdala.

Pitkänen A(1), Savander V, LeDoux JE.

Author information: 
(1)A.I. Virtanen Institute University of Kuopio, Finland.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 1998 Feb;21(2):52.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):240-1.
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 May;21(5):200-1.

The amygdala is located in the medial aspects of the temporal lobe. In spite of
the fact that the amygdala has been implicated in a variety of functions, ranging
from attention to memory to emotion, it has not attracted neuroscientists to the 
same extent as its laminated neighbours, in particular the hippocampus and
surrounding cortex. However, recently, principles of information processing
within the amygdala, particularly in the rat, have begun to emerge from
anatomical, physiological and behavioral studies. These findings suggest that
after the stimulus enters the amygdala, the highly organized intra-amygdaloid
circuitries provide a pathway by which the representation of a stimulus becomes
distributed in parallel to various amygdaloid nuclei. As a consequence, the
stimulus representation may become modulated by different functional systems,
such as those mediating memories from past experience or knowledge about ongoing 
homeostatic states. The amygdaloid output nuclei, especially the central nucleus,
receive convergent information from several other amygdaloid regions and generate
behavioral responses that presumably reflect the sum of neuronal activity
produced by different amygdaloid nuclei.


PMID: 9364666  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1998. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Nov;20(11):510-7.

Neurulation: coming to closure.

Smith JL(1), Schoenwolf GC.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurosurgery, University of Utah Medical Center, Salt Lake City 84132,
USA.

Neurulation is a morphogenetic event par excellence. During this highly
choreographed four-dimensional process, a flat sheet of ectoderm is transformed
into an elongated tubular rudiment, the neural tube, which exhibits rostro-caudal
and mediolateral regionalization. Many tissues interact during neurulation to
induce and regionalize the neuroectoderm and to produce the morphogenetic forces 
that drive neurulation. Such forces are generated by fundamental cell behaviors
such as changes in cell shape, position and number. In addition, morphoregulatory
molecules expressed during neurulation underlie induction and patterning of the
forming neuraxis. Despite recent advances in our understanding of neurulation,
neural tube defects continue to be a major health care concern. Further research,
utilizing a panoply of approaches, is necessary to resolve this issue. Thus,
although we are beginning to come to closure in terms of understanding the
cellular and molecular mechanisms responsible for normal neural tube formation,
'coming to closure' is exactly the problem that requires resolution to prevent
these devastating birth defects.


PMID: 9364665  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


1999. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Nov;20(11):508-9.

Do we need a limbic system?

Herbert J.


PMID: 9364664  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2000. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Nov;20(11):508; author reply 509.

Do we need a limbic system?

Spyer KM.


PMID: 9364663  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2001. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Nov;20(11):501-7.

Relevance of 'adaptive' mutations arising in non-dividing cells of microorganisms
to age-related changes in mutant phenotypes of neurons.

Finch CE(1), Goodman MF.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biological Science Hedco Molecular Biology Laboratories, University of
Southern California, Los Angeles 90089-0191, USA.

Brattleboro rats do not produce vasopressin (VP) because of a germ-line
single-base deletion (di) that causes a frame shift downstream from the VP
sequences and a loss of a stop codon. The resulting frame-shifted peptide
precursor does not enter the secretory pathway in hypothalamic neurons, thereby
blocking the neurosecretion of VP and other peptides. Yet, from birth onwards, a 
subpopulation of neurons in di/di rats slowly accumulates revertant cells with a 
hemizygous wild-type phenotype. Because the rate of reversion during aging is
slowed by vasopressin infusion, it is of interest to consider these phenomena in 
relation to recent observations on 'adaptive' mutations in single cell bacteria
and yeast that enable reversion of mutations that blocked cell division under
conditions of nutrient deficits. In considering mechanisms that could produce
revertant phenotypes in non-dividing cells of both pro- and eukaryotes, we note
the pertinence of transcription-coupled repair and SOS 'error-prone' repair.


PMID: 9364662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2002. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Nov;20(11):499-500.

Background genes: out of sight, but not out of brain....

Choi DW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Study of Nervous System Injury, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.


PMID: 9364661  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2003. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):487-92.

Rhythmic transcription: the molecular basis of circadian melatonin synthesis.

Foulkes NS(1), Borjigin J, Snyder SH, Sassone-Corsi P.

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, Illkirch,
France.

Adaptation to a changing environment is an essential feature of physiological
regulation. The day-night rhythm is translated into hormonal oscillations
governing the metabolism of all living organisms. In mammals the pineal gland is 
responsible for the synthesis of the hormone melatonin in response to signals
originating from the endogenous clock located in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic
nucleus (SCN). The molecular mechanisms involved in rhythmic synthesis of
melatonin involve the cAMP response element modulator (crem) gene, which encodes 
transcription factors responsive to activation of the cAMP signalling pathway.
The CREM product, inducible cAMP early repressor (ICER), is rhythmically
expressed and participates in a transcriptional autoregulatory loop that also
controls the amplitude of oscillations of 5-HT N-acetyl transferase, the
rate-limiting enzyme of melatonin synthesis. Thus, a transcription factor
modulates the oscillatory levels of a hormone.


PMID: 9347618  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2004. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):482-7.

Adenosine-dopamine receptor-receptor interactions as an integrative mechanism in 
the basal ganglia.

Ferré S(1), Fredholm BB, Morelli M, Popoli P, Fuxe K.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.

Increasing evidence suggests that antagonistic interactions between specific
subtypes of adenosine and dopamine receptors in the basal ganglia are involved in
the motor depressant effects of adenosine receptor agonists and the motor
stimulant effects of adenosine receptor antagonists, such as caffeine. The
GABAergic striatopallidal neurons are regulated by interacting adenosine A2A and 
dopamine D2 receptors. On the other hand, the GABAergic striatonigral and
striatoentopeduncular neurons seem to be regulated by interacting adenosine A1
and dopamine D1 receptors. Furthermore, behavioural studies have revealed
interactions between adenosine A2A and dopamine D1 receptors that occur at the
network level. These adenosine-dopamine receptor-receptor interactions might
offer new therapeutic leads for basal ganglia disorders.


PMID: 9347617  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2005. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):477-82.

Neural transplantation studies reveal the brain's capacity for continuous
reconstruction.

Isacson O(1), Deacon T.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Basic research using cell transplantation indicates that structural developmental
mechanisms seen in immature brains can also function in the adult brain. As the
brain matures, cellular migration and axonal growth is impeded. However, fetal
neural transplantation studies have shown that directional cues are available for
fetal axons to find specific host neurons in the adult brain. By reaching
specific and distant CNS target zones, donor tissue with extended axonal growth
periods demonstrate both an abundance and specificity of CNS neurotropic signals.
The presence of specific guidance cues, despite strong inhibition of regenerative
long-distance axonal growth, suggests that these cues play other physiological
roles in the adult CNS, and could be utilized therapeutically for reconnection of
neuronal pathways.


PMID: 9347616  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2006. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):471-7.

Organotypic slice cultures: a technique has come of age.

Gähwiler BH(1), Capogna M, Debanne D, McKinney RA, Thompson SM.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, University of Zurich, Switzerland.

Slices of CNS tissue prepared from young rodents can be maintained in culture for
many weeks to months. The basic requirements are simple: a stable substratum,
culture medium, sufficient oxygenation and incubation at a temperature of about
36 degrees C. Under these conditions, nerve cells continue to differentiate and
to develop a tissue organization that closely resembles that observed in situ.
Several alternative culturing methods have been developed recently. Slices
maintained in stationary culture with the interface method are ideally suited for
questions requiring a three-dimensional structure, whereas slices cultured in
roller-tubes remain the method of choice for experiments that require optimal
optical conditions. In this report, three typical experiments are discussed that 
illustrate the potential of the slice-culture technique. The first example
indicates that, due to their high neuronal connectivity, slice cultures provide a
very useful tool for studying the properties of synaptic transmission between
monosynaptically coupled cell pairs. The other two studies show how long-term
application of substances to slice cultures can be used to examine the
consequences of epileptic discharges in vitro, as well as the effects of slowly
acting clostridial neurotoxins on synaptic transmission.


PMID: 9347615  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2007. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):464-70.

The GluR2 (GluR-B) hypothesis: Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors in neurological
disorders.

Pellegrini-Giampietro DE(1), Gorter JA, Bennett MV, Zukin RS.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Farmacologia Preclinica e Clinica Mario Aiazzi Mancini,
Università di Firenze, Italy.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Jun;21(6):241-2.

The abnormal influx of Ca2+ through glutamate receptor channels is thought to
contribute to the loss of neurons associated with a number of brain disorders.
Until recently, the NMDA receptor was the only glutamate receptor known to be
Ca(2+)-permeable. It is now well established that AMPA receptors exist not only
in Ca(2+)-impermeable but also in Ca(2+)-permeable forms. AMPA receptors are
encoded by four genes designated gluR1 (gluR-A) through gluR4 (gluR-D). The
presence of the gluR2 subunit renders heteromeric AMPA receptor assemblies
Ca(2+)-impermeable. Recent studies involving animal models of transient forebrain
ischemia and epilepsy show that gluR2 mRNA is downregulated in vulnerable
neurons. These observations suggest that downregulation of gluR2 gene expression 
may serve as a 'molecular switch' leading to the formation of Ca(2+)-permeable
AMPA receptors and enhanced toxicity of endogenous glutamate following a
neurological insult.


PMID: 9347614  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2008. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):459-64.

Central clocking.

Hastings MH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy, University of Cambridge, UK.

The main questions in circadian neurobiology are: how many oscillators are
involved; how are their daily oscillations generated and synchronized to the
external world; and how do they signal time of day to the organism. The
suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus (SCN) are well established as the
principal circadian oscillator of mammals. Their 10,000 or so 'clock' neurones
drive our overt rhythms-the daily patterning we observe in our physiology and
behaviour being mirrored perfectly by their spontaneous cycle of neuronal
activity. However, they are not our only circadian oscillator, their molecular
timekeeping is not understood and they ways in which they communicate with other 
parts of the brain are more unusual than was previously assumed.


PMID: 9347613  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2009. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):451-9.

Network memory.

Fuster JM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, School of Medicine, University of California, Los
Angeles 90024, USA.

Our thinking on the cortical organization of primate memory is undergoing a
copernican change, from a neuropsychology that localizes different memories in
different areas to one that views memory as a distributed property of cortical
systems. We are shifting our focus from 'systems of memory' to the memory of
systems. The same cortical systems that serve us to perceive and move in the
world serve us to remember it. Our memories are networks of interconnected
cortical neurons, formed by association, that contain our experiences in their
connectional structure. Perceptual and motor memory networks are hierarchically
organized in post-rolandic and pre-rolandic neocortex, respectively. Recall,
recognition and working memory consist largely in their reactivation, also by
association.


PMID: 9347612  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2010. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):450.

A motivational perspective of conscious experience.

Ressler N.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1996 Nov;19(11):456-9.


PMID: 9347611  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2011. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):448-50.

More on calcium currents.

Artalejo CR.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1996 Sep;19(9):383-5.


PMID: 9347610  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2012. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):443-8.

Luigi Galvani and animal electricity: two centuries after the foundation of
electrophysiology.

Piccolino M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Università degli Studi di Ferrara, Dipartimento di Biologia, Italy.

Erratum in
    Trends Neurosci 1997 Dec;20(12):577.

Luigi Galvani and his famous experiments on frogs carried out in the second half 
of the 18th century belong more to legend than to the history of science. Galvani
not only laid the foundations of a new science, electrophysiology, but also
opened the way for the invention of the electric battery, and thus for the
development of the physical investigations of electricity. However, in spite of
the widespread celebration of his work, Galvani's scientific endeavours have been
largely misrepresented in the history of science. The scholar of Bologna has a
stereotyped image as an 'occasional' scientist, who started his studies by
chance, largely ignored the scientific theories of his time and wandered
aimlessly in mental elaborations until the physicist of Pavia, Alessandro Volta, 
entered the field, correctly interpreted Galvani's results and eventually
developed the electric battery. With the present understanding of electrical
phenomena in excitable membranes, it is now time to reconsider the real matter
raised by Galvani's discoveries and by his hypothesis of an intrinsic 'animal
electricity', and to make a clearer evaluation of a revolutionary phase of
scientific progress.


PMID: 9347609  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2013. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):435-42.

Non-invasive optical spectroscopy and imaging of human brain function.

Villringer A(1), Chance B.

Author information: 
(1)Neurologische Klinik, Charité, Humboldt-Universität Berlin, Germany.

Brain activity is associated with changes in optical properties of brain tissue. 
Optical measurements during brain activation can assess haemoglobin oxygenation, 
cytochrome-c-oxidase redox state, and two types of changes in light scattering
reflecting either membrane potential (fast signal) or cell swelling (slow
signal), respectively. In previous studies of exposed brain tissue, optical
imaging of brain activity has been achieved at high temporal and microscopical
spatial resolution. Now, using near-infrared light that can penetrate biological 
tissue reasonably well, it has become possible to assess brain activity in human 
subjects through the intact skull non-invasively. After early studies employing
single-site near-infrared spectroscopy, first near-infrared imaging devices are
being applied successfully for low-resolution functional brain imaging.
Advantages of the optical methods include biochemical specificity, a temporal
resolution in the millisecond range, the potential of measuring intracellular and
intravascular events simultaneously and the portability of the devices enabling
bedside examinations.


PMID: 9347608  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2014. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Oct;20(10):431-3.

Synaptic depression: a dynamic regulator of synaptic communication with varied
functional roles.

O'Donovan MJ(1), Rinzel J.

Author information: 
(1)Section on Developmental Neurobiology, NINDS and Mathematical Research Branch,
NIDDK, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.


PMID: 9347607  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2015. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):421-7.

Development of the insect stomatogastric nervous system.

Hartenstein V(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Molecular, Cell and Developmental Biology, University of California,
Los Angeles 90095-1606, USA.

The stomatogastric nervous system (SNS) forms a network of peripheral ganglia
associated with the insect gut. The SNS originates from a neuroepithelial placode
which dissolves into a population of migrating neural precursors. The formation
of the SNS presents many parallels to the development of the vertebrate
peripheral nervous system. Recent studies have started to provide answers for
pertinent questions in SNS development, in particular, how the SNS placode is
specified, how SNS precursors are released in a reproducible pattern from this
placode and how different cell types in the SNS are determined.


PMID: 9292972  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2016. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):415-21.

Current views on eye development.

Oliver G(1), Gruss P.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Genetics, St Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN 38105,
USA.

Several genes involved in the regulation of eye development in different species 
have been identified. Structural and functional conservation have been found
between some of these genes in organisms as diverse as Drosophila and mouse. One 
notable example is the relationship between the mouse Pax6 gene and eyeless of
Drosophila. Ectopic expression of eyeless or mouse Pax6 in Drosophila results in 
the formation of additional eyes. Recently, another homeobox gene, Six3, was
found to promote ectopic lens formation in fish embryos. The next step will be to
unravel the associated regulatory pathways of these genes and assess the degree
to which they display evolutionary conservation. This will be important in order 
to assimilate these findings with current anatomical and embryological models. It
seems reasonable to believe that in the near future the characterization of the
whole framework required for vertebrate eye development will be accomplished.


PMID: 9292971  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2017. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):410-5.

The role of anchoring protein RACK1 in PKC activation in the ageing rat brain.

Battaini F(1), Pascale A, Paoletti R, Govoni S.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Pharmacological Sciences, University of Milano, Milan, Italy.

High levels of expression of Ca2+/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase C (PKC)
occur in neuronal tissues and play a strategic role in the modulation of short-
and long-term functions (ion channels, receptor desensitization, neurotransmitter
release and synaptic efficiency) that become modified during the brain ageing
process. Recent studies have clarified the key role played by the anchoring
proteins in mediating subcellular PKC location, that is, in driving the enzyme to
specific sites of action. The protein, receptor for activated C-kinase 1 (RACK1) 
is involved in PKC-mediated signal transduction. A postnatal developmental
increase in RACK1 levels indicates their significance in the outgrowth of
neuronal processes. In a physiological model of impairment in PKC
translocation-the aged rat brain cortex-RACK1 levels are reduced and the PKC
isoenzymes known to interact with it do not translocate to membrane compartments 
upon stimulation. Anchoring proteins might represent new targets for compounds
that modulate PKC signal transduction processes.


PMID: 9292970  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2018. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):404-9.

The calcium channel and the organization of the presynaptic transmitter release
face.

Stanley EF(1).

Author information: 
(1)Synaptic Mechanisms Section, NINDS, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.

Calcium influx through ion channels located on the release face of the
presynaptic nerve terminal gates the release of neurotransmitters by the fusion
of the secretory vesicle and the discharge of its contents. Recently, several
lines of research have indicated that the relationship between the Ca2+ channel
and the release site might be more complex than dictated simply by its role as an
ion conduit. The evidence suggests that the channel and the transmitter-release
mechanism exist as a multimolecular entity and that this interaction has
functional consequences, not only on the mechanisms and properties of transmitter
release, but also on the behavior of the presynaptic Ca2+ channel itself.


PMID: 9292969  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2019. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):399-404.

T-cell apoptosis in autoimmune diseases: termination of inflammation in the
nervous system and other sites with specialized immune-defense mechanisms.

Gold R(1), Hartung HP, Lassmann H.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Clinical Research Unit for Multiple Sclerosis, Würzburg,
Germany.

We have studied T-cell apoptosis in animal models of human autoimmune disorders
of the nervous system and in other tissues devoid of specialized immune-defense
mechanisms. Our data suggest that the CNS has high potential for elimination of
T-cell-dependent inflammation, whereas this mechanism is less effective in the
PNS, and is almost absent in other tissues such as muscle and skin.
Interestingly, several conventional and novel immunotherapeutic approaches, such 
as glucocorticosteroid and high-dose antigen therapy, induce T-cell apoptosis in 
situ. In vitro experiments suggest different scenarios for the mechanisms by
which specific cellular and humoral elements in the nervous system synergize and 
sensitize T cells for apoptosis in vivo. We also discuss regulatory, proapoptotic
mechanisms, such as the Fas-FasL system and galectin-I, that have been utilized
in other tissues to mediate immune protection.


PMID: 9292968  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2020. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):397-8.

The magnocellular deficit theory of dyslexia.

Skottun BC.


PMID: 9292967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2021. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):396-7.

The functional study of kainate receptors--hopes and doubts.

Vizi ES, Mike A, Tarnawa I.


PMID: 9292966  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2022. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):393-4; author reply 394-5.

Glutamatergic effects and depolarization block.

Gessa GL, Mereu G.


PMID: 9292965  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2023. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):393; author reply 394-5.

Glutamatergic effects and depolarization block.

Lidsky TI, Banerjee SP.


PMID: 9292964  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2024. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):385-92.

Centenary of the synapse: from Sherrington to the molecular biology of the
synapse and beyond.

Shepherd GM(1), Erulkar SD.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT
06510, USA.

Few concepts have meant more to neuroscience than the synapse, commonly
understood to mean the junction between two excitable cells. The term was
introduced by Charles Sherrington in 1897. The centenary of this event is an
appropriate time to review the term's origins and utility. There are some
surprises. The term didn't actually come from him. His concept was more
functional than structural. The pioneering physiological and structural studies
in the 1950s in fact did not lead to a rigorous definition. There is still
confusion on how to define neurotransmitters. As molecular biological approaches 
are increasingly refining the concept of a fundamental synaptic unit, many types 
of neuronal interactions are appearing that do not fit with the synaptic concept.
Are the neural circuits underlying behaviour strictly synaptic? In dealing with
these questions, a longer perspective is useful for understanding how the term
arose, how it has evolved to the present, and what kinds of challenges may be
coming in the future.


PMID: 9292963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2025. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):377-84.

Intersynaptic diffusion of neurotransmitter.

Barbour B(1), Häusser M.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie, Ecole Normale Supérieure, Paris, France.

According to many theories of brain function, the computational power of the
brain depends upon the number of independent synapses it contains. A synapse will
not be independent if its receptors are activated or modified by neurotransmitter
released at neighbouring synapses. Recently, there have been several reports
suggesting the occurrence of 'crosstalk' or 'spillover', and a large number of
results consistent with crosstalk. However, the quantitative importance of this
phenomenon remains uncertain. We estimate the significance of crosstalk using a
simple model which predicts that, during concentrated synaptic activity,
crosstalk between distinct synapses is likely to activate high-affinity receptors
and may also desensitize certain receptors. Comparison of these predictions with 
the experimental data highlights the information that is required for a more
detailed model of crosstalk.


PMID: 9292962  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2026. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):375-6.

Stimulating issues in cortical map development.

Goodhill GJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Georgetown Institute for Cognitive and Computational Sciences, Georgetown
University Medical Center, Washington, DC 20007, USA.


PMID: 9292961  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2027. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Sep;20(9):373-5.

Mother's legacy: mitochondrial DNA mutations and Alzheimer's disease.

Mattson MP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sanders-Brown Research Center on Aging, Dept of Anatomy and Neurobiology,
University of Kentucky, Lexington 40536, USA.


PMID: 9292960  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2028. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):324-5.

John C. Eccles (1903-1997)

Andersen P(1), Lundberg A.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of neurophysiology, University of Oslo, Norway


PMID: 9289898  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2029. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):321-2.

Antisense gene knockdown in the nervous system revisited: optimism for the
future.

Leslie R(1), Jones D.

Author information: 
(1)SmithKline Beecham Pharmaceuticals, Harlow, Essex, UK.


PMID: 9289897  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2030. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):365-71.

Neuroscience and human intelligence differences.

Deary IJ(1), Caryl PG.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, University of Edinburgh, UK.

Research into the biological bases of human intelligence differences is surveyed.
Work on brain event-related potentials (ERPs) suggests that people with high IQ
test scores: (1) show faster responses in some test conditions; (2) have ERP
waveforms that can be distinguished from those of people with lower IQs; and (3) 
might have less variability in their ERPs. People with higher psychometric
intelligence have, on average, larger brains, and possibly faster neural
conduction speed. A few small functional brain-scanning studies suggest that, in 
healthy individuals, people who are of higher IQ have lower cerebral metabolic
rates during mentally active conditions. This has led to the speculation that
brighter people have more efficient brains. Despite some well-replicated findings
in the search for the 'biology of human intelligence' there is a dearth of
explanatory accounts to link cognitive performance differences with variance in
brain mechanisms.


PMID: 9246731  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2031. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):357-65.

Hematolymphopoietic and inflammatory cytokines in neural development.

Mehler MF(1), Kessler JA.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, Rose F. Kennedy Center for Research in Mental Retardation
and Human Development, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

It is now clear that cytokines traditionally viewed as immune modulators
participate in inflammatory responses within the adult nervous system. However,
in the developing nervous system hematolymphopoietic cytokines also play a role
unrelated to neural-immune interactions. Instead, many of these factors subserve 
primary regulatory functions related both to the morphogenesis and to the
cellular maturation of the central and peripheral nervous systems. This article
focuses specifically on cytokine actions in neural development.


PMID: 9246730  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2032. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):350-7.

The TINS Lecture. The parietal association cortex in depth perception and visual 
control of hand action.

Sakata H(1), Taira M, Kusunoki M, Murata A, Tanaka Y.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, Nihon University, School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):63.

Recent neurophysiological studies in alert monkeys have revealed that the
parietal association cortex plays a crucial role in depth perception and visually
guided hand movement. The following five classes of parietal neurons covering
various aspects of these functions have been identified: (1) depth-selective
visual-fixation (VF) neurons of the inferior parietal lobule (IPL), representing 
egocentric distance; (2) depth-movement sensitive (DMS) neurons of V5A and the
ventral intraparietal (VIP) area representing direction of linear movement in 3-D
space; (3) depth-rotation-sensitive (RS) neurons of V5A and the posterior
parietal (PP) area representing direction of rotary movement in space; (4)
visually responsive manipulation-related neurons (visual-dominant or
visual-and-motor type) of the anterior intraparietal (AIP) area, representing 3-D
shape or orientation (or both) of objects for manipulation; and (5)
axis-orientation-selective (AOS) and surface-orientation-selective (SOS) neurons 
in the caudal intraparietal sulcus (cIPS) sensitive to binocular disparity and
representing the 3-D orientation of the longitudinal axes and flat surfaces,
respectively. Some AOS and SOS neurons are selective in both orientation and
shape. Thus the dorsal visual pathway is divided into at least two subsystems,
V5A, PP and VIP areas for motion vision and V6, LIP and cIPS areas for coding
position and 3-D features. The cIPS sends the signals of 3-D features of objects 
to the AIP area, which is reciprocally connected to the ventral premotor (F5)
area and plays an essential role in matching hand orientation and shaping with
3-D objects for manipulation.


PMID: 9246729  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2033. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):349.

Trinucleotide-repeat expansion diseases.

Hannan AJ.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1996 Nov;19(11):449-50.


PMID: 9246728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2034. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):348-9.

Lesion-induced network plasticity in remote brain areas.

Witte OW, Buchkremer-Ratzmann I, Schiene K, Neumann-Haefelin T, Hagemann G,
Kraemer M, Zilles K, Freund HJ.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1996 Dec;19(12):535-42.


PMID: 9246727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2035. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):346-7.

Locomotor recovery after spinal cord injury.

Dietz V.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):72-7.


PMID: 9246726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2036. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):345; author reply 345-6.

How should brain nuclei be delineated? They don't need to be!

Brenowitz EA, Smith GT.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):58-62.


PMID: 9246725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2037. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):344-5; author reply 345-6.

How should brain nuclei be delineated? They don't need to be!

Bottjer SW, Johnson F.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):58-62.


PMID: 9246724  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2038. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):344; author reply 345-6.

How should brain nuclei be delineated? They don't need to be!

Ball GF, Balthazart J.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):58-62.


PMID: 9246723  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2039. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):343-4; author reply 345-6.

How should brain nuclei be delineated? They don't need to be!

Vogels O.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):58-62.


PMID: 9246722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2040. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):339-43.

Schizophrenia as failure of hemispheric dominance for language.

Crow TJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Prince of Wales International Centre, University Dept of Psychiatry, Warneford
Hospital, Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):145; author reply 146-7.
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):145-6; author reply 146-7.
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Apr;21(4):146-7.

Schizophrenic illnesses occur with approximately the same incidence in all human 
populations with a characteristic distribution (slightly earlier in males) of
ages of onset. Given that the predisposition (which presumably is genetic) is
associated with a procreative disadvantage why do such illnesses persist? Here it
is suggested that these conditions are a manifestation of genetic diversity in
the evolution of the specifically human characteristic of language, an innovation
that has occurred by a process of progressive hemispheric specialization-the
establishment of dominance for some critical component of language in one or the 
other hemisphere. Individuals who develop schizophrenic symptoms show lesser
anatomical and functional asymmetries than the population as a whole; such
symptoms may reflect 'dominance failure' for language.


PMID: 9246721  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2041. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):332-9.

Neural correlates of key stimulus and releasing mechanism: a case study and two
concepts.

Ewert JP(1).

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Neurobiologie, Fachbereich Biologie/Chemie, Universität Kassel,
Germany.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Aug;21(8):336-7.

Major themes in neuroethology concern the specificity of key stimuli, neurones
tuned to such stimuli, and the release of corresponding behaviour.
Neurobiological data from the analysis of visuomotor functions of prey-catching
and avoiding in amphibians support the view that retinal outflow in different
combinations is pooled for further computation in interacting processing streams,
rather than segregated into distinct retinal channels. The keys by which the
visual system gets access to perceptual-motor categories are shown to derive from
specific computational strategies that evaluate significant configurational
features of objects. Rapid behavioural responses are assured by visuomotor
pathways which, monitoring different aspects of visual objects, collectively
select appropriate motor patterns. Responses can be adapted to varying
environmental and internal conditions via modulating and modifying loops. This
requires parallel distributed processing and integration at various levels in a
macro-network.


PMID: 9246720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2042. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):326-31.

Rediscovering an old friend, IGF-I: potential use in the treatment of
neurodegenerative diseases.

Doré S(1), Kar S, Quirion R.

Author information: 
(1)Douglas Hospital Research Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) is a pleiotropic protein that acts on many
tissues and organs. As it is one of the major trophic factors in the circulation,
its actions in peripheral tissues are well established. It has been used for the 
treatment of several diseases, including growth deficiency, osteoporosis,
catabolic disorders and diabetes. Recent evidence supports the significance of
IGF-I in the maintenance of the integrity and homeostasis of the nervous system. 
The widespread distribution of its receptor allows IGF-I to affect the survival
of numerous populations of neurones and glial cells in both the CNS and the PNS. 
Most recently, a clinical trial has revealed the beneficial effects of IGF-I in
amyotrophic lateral-sclerosis (ALS), a degenerative disease of the motoneurones. 
We review briefly here experimental and clinical information that suggests the
potential usefulness of IGF-I in the treatment of certain neurodegenerative
diseases, including ALS, Alzheimer's disease, various neuropathies and brain
trauma. The rather unique propensity of IGF-I to act on a variety of neuronal
cells might provide a general means of reducing or slowing down neuronal losses
that occur following various brain insults.


PMID: 9246719  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2043. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):322-3.

An old friend in a new home: cadherins at the synapse.

Serafini T(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley
94720-3200, USA.


PMID: 9246718  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2044. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jul;20(7):309-17.

Bone morphogenetic proteins in the nervous system.

Mehler MF(1), Mabie PC, Zhang D, Kessler JA.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology and Neuroscience, Albert Einstein College of Medicine,
Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are a rapidly expanding subclass of the
transforming growth factor superfamily. BMP ligands and receptor subunits are
present throughout neural development within discrete regions of the embryonic
brain and within neural crest-derived pre- and post-migratory zones. BMPs
initially inhibit the formation of neuroectoderm during gastrulation while,
within the neural tube, they act as gradient morphogens to promote the
differentiation of dorsal cell types and intermediate cell types throughout
co-operative signaling. In the peripheral nervous system, BMPs act as instructive
signals for neuronal lineage commitment and promote graded stages of neuronal
differentiation. By contrast, within the CNS, these same factors promote
astroglial lineage elaboration from embryonic subventricular zone progenitor
cells, with concurrent suppression of the neuronal or oligodendroglial lineages, 
or both. In addition, BMPs act on more lineage-restricted embryonic CNS
progenitor cells to promote regional neuronal survival and cellular
differentiation. Furthermore, these versatile cytokines induce selective
apoptosis of discrete rhombencephalic neural crest-associated cellular
populations. These observations suggest that the BMPs exhibit a broad range of
cellular and context-specific effects during multiple stages of neural
development.


PMID: 9223224  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2045. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jul;20(7):303-8.

Maturation of the mammalian dorsal root entry zone--from entry to no entry.

Golding J(1), Shewan D, Cohen J.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Developmental Neurobiology, UMDS-Guy's Hospital, London, UK.

Interfaces between glial cell precursors of the PNS and CNS are established early
in development and form the sites where sensory axons enter and motor axons exit 
the developing CNS. The molecular and cellular interactions that lead to the
formation of these glial interfaces are only now becoming apparent. New in-vitro 
techniques are providing clues as to how the maturation of PNS-CNS glial
interfaces generates barriers to regenerating axons.


PMID: 9223223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2046. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jul;20(7):298-303.

Nitric oxide, the enigmatic neuronal messenger: its role in synaptic plasticity.

Hölscher C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Feb;21(2):63-4.

The discovery of the intercellular messenger nitric oxide (NO) stimulated new
concepts of how synaptic plasticity could be induced in the nervous system. While
initial reports found evidence that NO is of importance for the formation of
long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission (LTP) and spatial learning in
rats, later reports failed to confirm these results. Novel approaches such as
deletion of the gene that encodes NO synthase in mice showed that the neuronal
and the endothelial isoforms are expressed in neurones. Deletion of both isoforms
reduced the inducibility of LTP. Furthermore, novel selective inhibitors of NO
synthase impaired spatial learning. These results support the hypothesis that NO 
plays an important role in synaptic transmission and explain some but not all
previously contradictory results.


PMID: 9223222  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2047. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jul;20(7):294-8.

Y-receptor subtypes--how many more?

Blomqvist AG(1), Herzog H.

Author information: 
(1)Garvan Institute of Medical Research, Sydney, NSW, Australia.

The Y-receptors belong to the G protein-coupled receptor superfamily and mediate 
a wide variety of physiological effects, such as regulation of blood pressure,
anxiety, memory retention, hormone release and food intake. Since the first human
Y-receptor was cloned in 1992, the search for additional subtypes has been an
area of intense study. Recently four new NPY-receptor subtypes have been
isolated, revealing surprisingly limited sequence identity with values as low as 
30%. Several reports indicate further heterogeneity of this receptor family, for 
example a peripheral Y2 receptor. However, since many studies have been carried
out with different peptide analogs and radioligands in different species, there
is substantial confusion regarding the pharmacological profile of the receptors. 
This may have led to an exaggeration of the potential number of discrete
receptors.


PMID: 9223221  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2048. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jul;20(7):291-3.

Variation and selection in neural function.

Changeux JP.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1996 Nov;19(11):460-4.


PMID: 9223220  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2049. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jul;20(7):291; author reply 293.

Variation and selection in neural function.

Sporns O.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1996 Nov;19(11):460-4.


PMID: 9223219  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2050. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jul;20(7):287-90.

p75NTR and apoptosis: Trk-dependent and Trk-independent effects.

Bredesen DE(1), Rabizadeh S.

Author information: 
(1)Burnham Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA.

The ongoing dissection of the roles of p75NTR and TrkA, -B and -C in neurotrophin
signaling has generated a number of apparent paradoxes. Limiting consideration to
the role of p75NTR in cell death, a theory is proposed that is based on the
following postulates: (1) that p75NTR displays a pro-apoptotic intrinsic
(ligand-independent, Trk-independent) receptor effect (IRE), which is inhibited
by ligand binding; (2) that p75NTR and TrkA exhibit mutual repression of
signaling; and (3) that p75NTR and TrkA are required for the efficient generation
of high-affinity NGF binding sites.


PMID: 9223218  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2051. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jul;20(7):281-7.

Monitoring secretion in real time: capacitance, amperometry and fluorescence
compared.

Angleson JK(1), Betz WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, University of Colorado Medical School, Denver 80262, USA.

Techniques for measuring exocytosis, endocytosis and vesicle cycling in living
cells in real time have resulted in a rapid expansion in the knowledge of these
processes in neurons and other secretory cells. Several experimental approaches, 
developed during the past decade, have played key roles in this expansion. In
this review we focus on three techniques: electrophysiological methods for
monitoring membrane capacitance, electrochemical methods for detecting released
secretory contents and optical methods for imaging membranes of endosomes and
recycled vesicles that are stained with fluorescent dyes. Each technique has
contributed unique and complementary information about the vesicle cycle,
advancing our knowledge of the kinetics of membrane fusion and retrieval, the
identity of the secretory contents and the spatial patterns and directional
pathways involved in secretory membrane recycling. Naturally, each technique has 
inherent limitations; some of these shortcomings have recently been resolved by
using more than one method simultaneously.


PMID: 9223217  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2052. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jul;20(7):279-80.

Alzheimer transgenic mouse models come of age.

Duff K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.


PMID: 9223216  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2053. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jul;20(7):277-9.

The coming of age of the GDNF family and its receptors: gene delivery in a rat
Parkinson model may have clinical implications.

Olson L(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.


PMID: 9223215  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2054. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):269-74.

New evidence for neurotransmitter influences on brain development.

Levitt P(1), Harvey JA, Friedman E, Simansky K, Murphy EH.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurobiology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, PA 15261,
USA.

The early appearance of monoamine systems in the developing mammalian CNS
suggests that they play a role in neural development. We review data from two
model systems that provide compelling new evidence of this role. In one model
system-in utero exposure to cocaine-specific and robust alterations are seen in
dopamine-rich areas of the cerebral cortex, such as the anterior cingulate
cortex: D1 receptor-G protein coupling is greatly reduced, the GABAergic system
is altered and pyramidal dendrites undergo excessive growth. In a second model
system-a transgenic mouse line in which the gene that encodes monoamine oxidase A
(MAOA) is disrupted, resulting in excessively high 5-HT levels-barrels fail to
form in the developing somatosensory cortex. Both models reveal the effects of
very early manipulation of monoamines on forebrain development, and the long-term
anomalies that persist into adulthood.


PMID: 9185309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2055. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):264-8.

The postsynaptic density at glutamatergic synapses.

Kennedy MB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91104, USA.

The postsynaptic density (PSD) is a tiny, amorphous structure located beneath the
postsynaptic membrane of synapses in the CNS. Until recently, the molecular
composition and function of the PSD were mostly matters of speculation. With the 
advent of powerful new microchemical tools and molecular-genetic methods, three
new classes of proteins have been identified in the PSD at glutamatergic
synapses: the PSD-95 family, the NR2B subunit of the NMDA-type glutamate
receptor, and densin-180. The PSD-95 family is involved in clustering of NMDA
receptors. NR2B is phosphorylated by Ca2(+)-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase
type II, a prominent constituent of the PSD. Densin-180 might represent a new
class of synaptic adhesion molecule. Study of these molecules is beginning to
reveal the functional significance of the PSD.


PMID: 9185308  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2056. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):258-64.

Building a brain: developmental insights in insects.

Reichert H(1), Boyan G.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Zoology, University of Basel, Switzerland.

Understanding the cellular, molecular and genetic mechanisms involved in building
the brain remains one of the most challenging problems of neurobiology. In this
article, we review recent work on the developmental mechanisms that generate the 
embryonic brain in insects. We compare some of the early developmental events
that occur in the insect brain with those that operate during brain development
in vertebrates and find that numerous parallels are present at both the cellular 
and the molecular levels. Thus, the roles of glial cells in prefiguring axon
pathways, the function of pioneer neurons in establishing axon pathways, and the 
formation of a primary axon scaffolding are features of embryonic brain
development in both insects and vertebrates. Moreover, at the molecular genetic
level homologous regulatory genes control morphogenesis, regionalization and
patterning during embryonic brain development in both insects and vertebrates.
This indicates that there might be universal mechanisms for brain development,
and that knowledge gained from Drosophila and other insects is relevant to our
understanding of brain development in other more complex organisms, including
man.


PMID: 9185307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2057. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):252-8.

NF-kappa B: a crucial transcription factor for glial and neuronal cell function.

O'Neill LA(1), Kaltschmidt C.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biochemistry, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1998 Mar;21(3):106.

Transcription factors provide the link between early membrane-proximal signalling
events and changes in gene expression. NF-kappa B is one of the
best-characterized transcription factors. It is expressed ubiquitously and
regulates the expression of many genes, most of which encode proteins that play
an important and often determining role in the processes of immunity and
inflammation. Apart from its role in these events, evidence has begun to
accumulate that NF-kappa B is involved in brain function, particularly following 
injury and in neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease. NF-kappa 
B might also be important for viral replication in the CNS. An involvement of
NF-kappa B in neuronal development is suggested from studies that demonstrate its
activation in neurones in certain regions of the brain during neurogenesis.
Brain-specific activators of NF-kappa B include glutamate (via both AMPA/KA and
NMDA receptors) and neurotrophins, pointing to an involvement in synaptic
plasticity. NF-kappa B can therefore be considered as one of the most important
transcription factors characterized in brain to date and it might be as crucial
for neuronal and glial cell function as it is for immune cells.


PMID: 9185306  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2058. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):245-52.

The neural basis of associative reward learning in honeybees.

Hammer M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Neurobiologie, FU Berlin, Germany.

Appetitive learning of food-predicting stimuli, an essential part of foraging
behavior in honeybees, follows the rules of associative learning. In the learning
of odors as reward-predicting stimuli, an individual neuron, one of a small group
of large ascending neurons that serve principal brain neuropiles, mediates the
reward and has experience-dependent response properties. This implies that this
neuron functions as an integral part of associative memory, might underlie more
complex features of learning, and could participate in the implementation of
learning rules. Moreover, its structural properties suggest that it organizes the
interaction of functionally different neural nets during learning and
experience-dependent behavior.


PMID: 9185305  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2059. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):244.

5-HT neurones--bursting with information?

Hajós M, Sharp T.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):38-43.


PMID: 9185304  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2060. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):243-4.

Does r-EAG contribute to the M-current?

Marrion NV.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):13-4.


PMID: 9185303  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2061. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):239-42.

Alexander von Humboldt and the concept of animal electricity.

Kettenmann H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine, Berlin-Buch, Germany.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):559.

More than two hundred years ago, Alexander von Humboldt helped to establish
Galvani's view that muscle and nerve tissue are electrically excitable. His 1797 
publication was a landmark for establishing the concept of animal electricity.
Almost half a century later, von Humboldt became the mentor of the young du
Bois-Reymond. With the help of von Humboldt's promotion, du Bois-Reymond
demonstrated convincingly that animal tissue has the intrinsic capacity to
generate electrical activity, and thus laid the ground for modern
electrophysiology.


PMID: 9185302  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2062. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):235-9.

Inadequate frameworks for understanding bodily homeostasis.

Blessing WW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Medicine, Flinders Medical Centre, Bedford Park, Australia.

Separate nervous systems, somatic and autonomic, were proposed to regulate the
portion of the individual's life that is concerned with the external environment 
and the portion that is concerned with internal homeostasis. Regulation of the
autonomic system by the CNS was assigned to the limbic system. Brainstem
circuitry, between limbic and autonomic systems, was assigned to the supposedly
nonspecific reticular formation. In fact, daily survival depends on integrated
control of behavior and internal physiology. In mammals only the brain has the
inbuilt programming for patterned co-ordination of these activities. The terms
autonomic nervous system, limbic system and reticular formation are at odds with 
this patterned co-ordination. They should be abandoned and replaced with the term
visceral neurons (afferent and efferent) and with reference to relevant
specific-neural circuitry in the brain.


PMID: 9185301  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2063. Trends Neurosci. 1997 May;20(5):227-31.

The c-Jun transcription factor--bipotential mediator of neuronal death, survival 
and regeneration.

Herdegen T(1), Skene P, Bähr M.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology, University of Kiel, Germany.

Axon interruption elicits a complex neuronal response that leaves neurons poised 
precariously between death and regeneration. The signals underlying this
dichotomy are not fully understood. The transcription factor c-Jun is one of the 
earliest and most consistent markers for neurons that respond to nerve-fiber
transection, and its expression can be related to both degeneration and survival 
including target re-innervation. In vitro experiments have demonstrated that
expression of c-Jun can kill neonatal neurons but, in the adult nervous system,
c-Jun might also be involved in neuroprotection and regeneration. The functional 
characteristics of c-Jun offer a model for the ability of a single molecule to
serve as pivotal regulator for death or survival, not only in the response of the
cell body to axonal lesions but also following neurodegenerative disorders. In
this model, the fate of neurons is determined by a novel transcriptional network 
comprising c-Jun, ATF-2 (activating transcription factor-2) and JNKs (c-Jun
N-terminal kinases).


PMID: 9141200  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2064. Trends Neurosci. 1997 May;20(5):223-7.

The DnaJ-like cysteine string protein and exocytotic neurotransmitter release.

Buchner E(1), Gundersen CB.

Author information: 
(1)Lehrstuhl für Genetik, Biozentrum der Universität, Würzburg, Germany.

The fast, tightly regulated release of neurotransmitters from presynaptic nerve
terminals is effected by a complex molecular apparatus. The precise roles of the 
various proteins involved remain largely conjectural. Cysteine string proteins
(CSPs) are novel synaptic vesicle components that have been conserved in
evolution. They are characterized by an N-terminus 'J'-domain and a central,
multiply palmitoylated string of cysteine residues. Vertebrate CSPs have been
implicated in a functional interaction of synaptic vesicles with presynaptic Ca2+
channels. Genetic 'knockout' of CSPs in Drosophila results in a
temperature-sensitive breakdown of elicited transmitter release. Here we try to
integrate these observations into speculative functional models on the role of
this new protein family in synaptic vesicle exocytosis.


PMID: 9141199  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2065. Trends Neurosci. 1997 May;20(5):218-23.

Sprouting in the hippocampus is layer-specific.

Frotscher M(1), Heimrich B, Deller T.

Author information: 
(1)Anatomisches Institut der Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Germany.

Partial removal of layer-specific afferents of the hippocampus is said to induce 
sprouting of intact fibers from neighboring layers that invade the zone of the
degenerating axons. However, recent in vivo and in vitro studies using sensitive 
anterograde tracers have failed to demonstrate sprouting across laminar
boundaries. Sprouting does occur; but, it mainly involves unlesioned fiber
systems terminating within the layer of fiber degeneration in addition to the
degenerating afferents. These findings point to rigid laminar cues attracting
certain fiber systems while repelling others in normal development and after
partial deafferentation.


PMID: 9141198  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2066. Trends Neurosci. 1997 May;20(5):213-8.

The functional neuroanatomy of episodic memory.

Fletcher PC(1), Frith CD, Rugg MD.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Dept of Cognitive Neurology, Institute of Neurology, London, UK.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):557-8.

Functional neuroimaging studies have revealed that effective encoding in episodic
memory is associated with enhanced activity in left prefrontal cortex, whereas
retrieval is accompanied by the enhancement of predominantly right-sided
prefrontal activity. The extent of the contribution of prefrontal cortex to
episodic memory, and the fact that the encoding and retrieval operations it
supports are differentially lateralized, were unexpected on the basis of evidence
from lesion studies. Such studies have highlighted the crucial role in episodic
memory played by the hippocampus and related medial temporal lobe structures.
Neuroimaging studies, however, have had only limited success in elucidating the
role of the hippocampus in episodic memory. Refinements in experimental design
and improved spatial resolution should promote rapid future progress with respect
to this issue.


PMID: 9141197  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2067. Trends Neurosci. 1997 May;20(5):204-12.

Presynaptic inhibition of elicited neurotransmitter release.

Wu LG(1), Saggau P.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Zellphysiologie, Max-Planck-Institut für medizinische Forschung,
Heidelberg, Germany.

Activation of presynaptic receptors for a variety of neurotransmitters and
neuromodulators inhibits transmitter release at many synapses. Such presynaptic
inhibition might serve as a means of adjusting synaptic strength or preventing
excessive transmitter release, or both. Previous evidence showed that presynaptic
modulators inhibit Ca2+ channels and activate K+ channels at neuronal somata.
These modulators also inhibit spontaneous transmitter release by mechanisms
downstream of Ca2+ entry. The relative contribution of the above mechanisms to
the inhibition of elicited release has been debated for a long time. Recent
evidence at synapses where the relationship between transmitter release and
presynaptic Ca2+ influx has been well characterized suggests that inhibition of
presynaptic voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels plays the major role in presynaptic
inhibition of elicited neurotransmitter release. In addition, modulation of the
release machinery might contribute to inhibition of elicited release.


PMID: 9141196  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2068. Trends Neurosci. 1997 May;20(5):203-4.

Do multilineage potential neural stem cells really exist in the brain of adult
mammals.

Korr H.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1996 Sep;19(9):387-93.


PMID: 9141195  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2069. Trends Neurosci. 1997 May;20(5):198-202.

Neurotrophins and activity-dependent plasticity of cortical interneurons.

Marty S(1), Berzaghi MdaP, Berninger B.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM U 421, Faculté de Médecine, Créteil, France.

Neocortical and hippocampal GABA-containing interneurons are susceptible to
activity-dependent modulation, such as regulation of soma size, numbers of
synaptic contacts, and levels of GABA or neuropeptide expression. In vitro, the
effects of neuronal activity on morphology and gene expression of GABA-containing
neurons are mimicked, in part, by members of the neurotrophin gene family, such
as brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). In the neocortex and hippocampus,
BDNF is synthesized and secreted in an activity-dependent manner by pyramidal
neurons, the target cells of GABA-containing neurons, suggesting that BDNF is an 
activity-dependent, target-derived trophic factor for these interneurons. In
support of this, neuronal activity fails to upregulate the expression of
neuropeptide Y in hippocampal cultures from BDNF-deficient mice. We, therefore,
hypothesize that neurotrophins might mediate some of the actions of neuronal
activity on GABA-containing neurons.


PMID: 9141194  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2070. Trends Neurosci. 1997 May;20(5):192-7.

The 'sniffer-patch' technique for detection of neurotransmitter release.

Allen TG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology, University College London, UK.

A wide variety of techniques have been employed for the detection and measurement
of neurotransmitter release from biological preparations. Whilst many of these
methods offer impressive levels of sensitivity, few are able to combine
sensitivity with the necessary temporal and spatial resolution required to study 
quantal release from single cells. One detection method that is seeing a revival 
of interest and has the potential to fill this niche is the so-called
'sniffer-patch' technique. In this article, specific examples of the practical
aspects of using this technique are discussed along with the procedures involved 
in calibrating these biosensors to extend their applications to provide
quantitative, in addition to simple qualitative, measurements of quantal
transmitter release.


PMID: 9141193  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2071. Trends Neurosci. 1997 May;20(5):189-92.

Calcium channels prove to be a real headache.

Miller RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacological and Physiological Sciences, University of Chicago, IL 
60637, USA.


PMID: 9141192  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2072. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Apr;20(4):177-81.

Cerebellar circuits and synaptic mechanisms involved in classical eyeblink
conditioning.

Kim JJ(1), Thompson RF.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, Yale University, New Haven, CT 06520-8205, USA.

There is increasing evidence that, in addition to its major functional role in
the regulation of fine motor control, the cerebellum is involved in other
important functions, such as sensory-motor learning and memory. Classical
conditioning of the eyeblink or nictitating membrane response (and other discrete
behavioral responses) is a form of sensory-motor learning that depends crucially 
upon the cerebellum. Within the cerebellum, however, the relative importance of
the cerebellar cortex and the deep cerebellar nuclei in eyeblink conditioning is 
unclear and disputed. Recent studies employing various mutant mice provide an
effective approach to resolving this controversy. Eyeblink conditioning in
spontaneous mutant mice deficit in Purkinje cells, the exclusive output neurons
of the cerebellar cortex, indicate that both the cerebellar cortex and the
interpositus nucleus are important. Furthermore, studies involving gene knockout 
mice suggest that long-term depression, a process of synaptic plasticity
occurring in Purkinje cells, might be involved in eyeblink conditioning.


PMID: 9106359  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2073. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Apr;20(4):170-7.

Multiple overlapping processes underlying short-term synaptic enhancement.

Fisher SA(1), Fischer TM, Carew TJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Psychology, Yale University, New Haven, CT 06520-8205, USA.

Recently there have been exciting advances in understanding the mechanisms and
functional roles of a form of short-term synaptic enhancement (STE) that results 
from an activity-dependent accumulation of Ca2+ in the presynaptic terminal. This
form of STE is composed of at least four processes: fast-decaying facilitation
(FI), slow-decaying facilitation (F2), augmentation (AUG) and post-tetanic
potentiation (PTP). Recent results suggest that these processes can now be
distinguished mechanistically by the site of their induction within the
presynaptic terminal: FI and F2 appear to be induced by a rapid, high
concentration of Ca2+ at or near the site of exocytosis, whereas AUG and PTP seem
to be induced by lower levels of Ca2+ with slower kinetics, possibly within the
core of the terminal. STE is highly conserved across diverse species, and appears
to serve as a flexible mechanism for temporal information processing in systems
ranging from peripheral motor control to higher cortical integration.


PMID: 9106358  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2074. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Apr;20(4):165-9.

The albino retina: an abnormality that provides insight into normal retinal
development.

Jeffery G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, UK.

Albino mammals have specific deficits in their retinae and in the pattern of
decussation at their optic chiasm, demonstrating that a melanin-related agent is 
crucial for normal development of the visual system. Although much attention has 
been paid to chiasmatic abnormality over the past 30 years, little progress has
been made in understanding the abnormality. There has now been a shift of
attention towards an analysis of the developing albino retina, which is providing
significant advances in our understanding of the role played by this
melanin-related agent. It is now possible to identify one candidate substance
that emanates from the synthetic pathway of melanin that plays a key role in
regulating retinal development.


PMID: 9106357  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2075. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Apr;20(4):159-64.

The role of neurotrophic factors in regulating the development of inner ear
innervation.

Fritzsch B(1), Silos-Santiago I, Bianchi LM, Fariñas I.

Author information: 
(1)Creighton University, Dept of Biomedical Sciences, Omaha, NE 68178, USA.

Several neurotrophins and their receptors regulate the survival of vestibular and
cochlear neurons and probably also the efferent and autonomic neurons that
innervate the inner ear. Mice lacking either brain-derived neurotrophic factor
(BDNF) or its associated receptor, TrkB, lose all innervation to the semicircular
canals and have reduced innervation of the outer hair cells in the apical and
middle turns of the cochlea. Mice lacking neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) or its receptor, 
TrkC, lose many spiral ganglion cells predominantly in the basal turn of the
cochlea. Nerve fibers from spiral ganglion cells in the middle turn extended to
inner hair cells of the base. In mice lacking both BDNF and NT-3, or both TrkB
and TrkC, there is a complete loss of innervation to the inner ear. Thus, these
two neurotrophins and their associated receptors have been shown to be absolutely
necessary for the normal development of afferent innervation of the inner ear.
Current research efforts are testing the therapeutic potential for neurotrophins 
to treat hearing loss.


PMID: 9106356  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2076. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Apr;20(4):154-9.

Amyloid, the presenilins and Alzheimer's disease.

Hardy J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL 32224, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Dec;20(12):558-9.

Various mutations in the amyloid protein precursor and presenilin genes can lead 
to early onset, autosomal Alzheimer's disease. A series of mis-sense mutations
(with one exception) in each of these genes has been shown to cause disease in a 
fully penetrant fashion. It has recently been shown, both in vivo and in model
systems, that tissues expressing these mutations have increased production of
amyloid (A beta) ending at residue 42. It has also recently been shown that this 
form of A beta is deposited early and selectively in the disease process and is
more fibrillogenic in vitro. It is argued that these genetic and molecular
biological data provide strong support for the veracity of the 'amyloid cascade
hypothesis' for disease pathogenesis, and that this hypothesis offers a coherent 
framework for drug discovery.


PMID: 9106355  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2077. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Apr;20(4):152-3.

Updating the functional model of the basal ganglia.

Féger J.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1996 Oct;19(10):417-22.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)01016-8 
PMID: 9106354  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2078. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Apr;20(4):147-52.

To see but not to read; the magnocellular theory of dyslexia.

Stein J(1), Walsh V.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Physiology, University of Oxford, UK.

Developmental dyslexics often complain that small letters appear to blur and move
around when they are trying to read. Anatomical, electrophysiological,
psychophysical and brain-imaging studies have all contributed to elucidating the 
functional organization of these and other visual confusions. They emerge not
from damage to a single visual relay but from abnormalities of the magnocellular 
component of the visual system, which is specialized for processing fast temporal
information. The m-stream culminates in the posterior parietal cortex, which
plays an important role in guiding visual attention. The evidence is consistent
with an increasingly sophisticated account of dyslexia that does not single out
either phonological, or visual or motor deficits. Rather, temporal processing in 
all three systems seems to be impaired. Dyslexics may be unable to process fast
incoming sensory information adequately in any domain.


PMID: 9106353  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2079. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Apr;20(4):144-7.

Ion channels as enzymes: analogy or homology?

Marban E(1), Tomaselli GF.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Molecular and Cellular Cardiology, Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Ion channels render nerve and muscle excitable. A typical channel protein can
mediate the passive transfer of millions of ions per second across the membrane. 
Thus, channels catalyse the transmembrane flux of ions, fulfilling criteria
traditionally associated with enzymes. Is this a semantic coincidence, or do
channels and enzymes in fact rely upon similar structural principles? A general
answer remains elusive given the paucity of crystallographic data on channels.
Nevertheless, emerging evidence points to fundamental similarities between the
pores of channels and the active sites of enzymes of resolved structure. Shared
features include narrow clefts lined by protein loops, and specific binding of
transition intermediates during catalysis. The often cited analogies between
channels and enzymes might therefore reflect basic design homologies.


PMID: 9106352  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2080. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Apr;20(4):143-4.

Early beginnings for adult brain pathology.

Altman J.


PMID: 9106351  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2081. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Mar;20(3):132-9.

Bright and dark sides of nitric oxide in ischemic brain injury.

Iadecola C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455, USA.

There is increasing evidence that nitric oxide (NO), a free radical that can act 
both as a signaling molecule and a neurotoxin, is involved in the mechanisms of
cerebral ischemia. Although early investigations yielded conflicting results, the
introduction of more-selective pharmacological tools and the use of molecular
approaches for deletion of genes encoding for NO synthase have provided a better 
understanding of the role of NO in the mechanisms of ischemic brain damage. The
evidence reviewed in this article suggests that NO is protective or destructive
depending on the stage of evolution of the ischemic process and on the cellular
source of NO. Defining the role of NO in cerebral ischemia provides the rationale
for new neuroprotective strategies based on modulation of NO production in the
post-ischemic brain.


PMID: 9061868  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2082. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Mar;20(3):125-31.

Action potential initiation and backpropagation in neurons of the mammalian CNS.

Stuart G(1), Spruston N, Sakmann B, Häusser M.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, John Curtin School of Medical Research, Australian
National University, Canberra, Australia.

Most neurons in the mammalian CNS encode and transmit information via action
potentials. Knowledge of where these electrical events are initiated and how they
propagate within neurons is therefore fundamental to an understanding of neuronal
function. While work from the 1950s suggested that action potentials are
initiated in the axon, many subsequent investigations have suggested that action 
potentials can also be initiated in the dendrites. Recently, experiments using
simultaneous patch-pipette recordings from different locations on the same neuron
have been used to address this issue directly. These studies show that the site
of action potential initiation is in the axon, even when synaptic activation is
powerful enough to elicit dendritic electrogenesis. Furthermore, these and other 
studies also show that following initiation, action potentials actively
backpropagate into the dendrites of many neuronal types, providing a retrograde
signal of neuronal output to the dendritic tree.


PMID: 9061867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2083. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Mar;20(3):119-24.

Primordial respiratory-like rhythm generation in the vertebrate embryo.

Champagnat J(1), Fortin G.

Author information: 
(1)Biologie Fonctionnelle du Neurone, Institut Alfred Fessard, CNRS,
Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

Respiration is a rhythmic motor behavior that appears in the fetus and acquires a
vital importance at birth. It is generated centrally, within neuronal networks of
the hindbrain. This region of the brain is of particular interest since it is the
best understood with respect to the cellular and molecular mechanisms that
underlie its development. Examination of hindbrain activities in the chick embryo
has revealed that the central rhythm generator is active before fetal maturation 
and conforms to the rhombomeric organization of the embryonic hindbrain.
Inactivation of genes required for the normal formation of rhombomeres in mice
leads to perturbations of the reticular formation that affect respiration after
birth and compromise the probability of survival. From studies of hindbrain
development we might gain an understanding of how genes govern the early
embryonic development of neuronal networks and how this might specify patterns of
motor activities operating throughout life.


PMID: 9061866  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2084. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Mar;20(3):116-8.

Towards a European forum for the neurosciences.

Singer W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck Institute for Brain Research, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

In 1994, TINS published a brief analysis of the problems faced by the European
neuroscience community in its attempt to meet the challenges associated with the 
proclamation of the European 'Decade of the Brain'. Since then numerous
initiatives have been taken by national and European neuroscience societies with 
the common goals of improving communication among European neuroscientists,
increasing the visibility of the neurosciences as an autonomous and increasingly 
important domain of research in the appreciation of national and European
granting bodies, and facilitating integration of colleagues from Eastern Europe
into the international scientific community. These initiatives have led to major 
changes in the organization and self-apprehension of national and European
neuroscience societies.


PMID: 9061865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2085. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Mar;20(3):112-6.

Luciani's work on the cerebellum a century later.

Manni E(1), Petrosini L.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Physiology, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.

In 1891, Luigi Luciani published his famous monograph on the cerebellum and
formulated his triad of the cerebellar symptoms: atonia, asthenia and astasia,
which explained all troubles provoked by cerebellar lesions; later he added a
fourth sign, dysmetria. In spite of the fact that it was advanced in a
pre-electrophysiological period, Luciani's interpretation of the cerebellar role 
in many motor functions survives more than a century later and his terminology
has entered the routine of the neurological examination. With the modern
knowledge of cerebellar circuitries, we can state that Luciani rightly pointed
out the role of the cerebellum in regulating postural tone and muscular force,
and that conversely he was wrong in denying cerebellar influence in co-ordination
of multi-joint movements and the somatotopic localizations in the cerebellar
cortex and nuclei. In spite of this, Luciani's work represents a milestone in
cerebellar physiology.


PMID: 9061864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2086. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Mar;20(3):106-11.

Visual brain and visual perception: how does the cortex do perceptual grouping?

Grossberg S(1), Mingolla E, Ross WD.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Cognitive and Neural Systems, Boston University, MA 02215, USA.

How the brain generates visual percepts is a central problem in neuroscience. We 
propose a detailed neural model of how lateral geniculate nuclei and the
interblob cortical stream through V1 and V2 generate context-sensitive perceptual
groupings from visual inputs. The model suggests a functional role for cortical
layers, columns, maps and networks, and proposes homologous circuits for V1 and
V2 with larger-scale processing in V2. An integrated treatment of interlaminar,
horizontal, orientational and endstopping cortical interactions and a role for
corticogeniculate feedback in grouping are proposed. Modeled circuits simulate
parametric psychophysical data about boundary grouping and illusory contour
formation.


PMID: 9061863  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2087. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Mar;20(3):102-6.

Synaptic plasticity, place cells and spatial memory: study with second generation
knockouts.

Wilson MA(1), Tonegawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge 02139, USA.

The use of genetically engineered mice has been a major development in
neuroscience research. Genetic engineering is an undoubtedly powerful technique; 
however, the value of this approach has been debated, particularly in relation to
its use to probe the underlying bases of complex behaviors, such as memory. A
recent new development of the technique is the ability to target a specific gene 
knockout to a particular subregion or even to specific and limited cell types of 
the mouse brain. An example of this approach is the knockout of the NMDARI gene
in only CAI-pyramidal cells of the hippocampus. The resulting animals can be
tested by several methods, including in vivo multielectrode recording during
behavioral tasks. The data provide strong evidence in favor of the notion that
NMDA receptor-dependent synaptic plasticity at CAI synapses is required for both 
the acquisition of spatial memory and the formation of normal CAI place fields.
This relationship suggests that robust place fields may be essential for spatial 
memory.


PMID: 9061862  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2088. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Mar;20(3):100-2.

Neurotrophins gain a hearing.

Schimmang T(1), Represa J.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Biología y Genética Molecular, Universidad de Valladolid y
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Facultad de Medicina, Spain.


PMID: 9061861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2089. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Mar;20(3):99-100.

Building (potassium) channels to the 21st century.

Trimmer JS(1), Rhodes KJ.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, State University of New York, Stony
Brook 11794, USA.


PMID: 9061860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2090. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):92-8.

Presynaptic nicotinic ACh receptors.

Wonnacott S(1).

Author information: 
(1)School of Biology and Biochemistry, University of Bath, UK.

Nicotinic ACh (nACh) receptors in the CNS are composed of a diverse array of
subunits and have a range of pharmacological properties. However, despite the
fact that they are ligand-gated cation channels, their physiological functions
have not been determined. This has led to increased interest in presynaptic nACh 
receptors that act to modulate the release of transmitter from presynaptic
terminals.


PMID: 9023878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2091. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):84-91.

GAP-43: an intrinsic determinant of neuronal development and plasticity.

Benowitz LI(1), Routtenberg A.

Author information: 
(1)Children's Hospital, Dept of Surgery, Boston, MA, USA.

Several lines of investigation have helped clarify the role of GAP-43 (FI, B-50
or neuromodulin) in regulating the growth state of axon terminals. In transgenic 
mice, overexpression of GAP-43 leads to the spontaneous formation of new synapses
and enhanced sprouting after injury. Null mutation of the GAP-43 gene disrupts
axonal pathfinding and is generally lethal shortly after birth. Manipulations of 
GAP-43 expression likewise have profound effects on neurite outgrowth for cells
in culture. GAP-43 appears to be involved in transducing intra- and extracellular
signals to regulate cytoskeletal organization in the nerve ending.
Phosphorylation by protein kinase C is particularly significant in this regard,
and is linked with both nerve-terminal sprouting and long-term potentiation. In
the brains of humans and other primates, high levels of GAP-43 persist in
neocortical association areas and in the limbic system throughout life, where the
protein might play an important role in mediating experience-dependent
plasticity.


PMID: 9023877  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2092. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):78-84.

Neurocircuitry of stress: central control of the
hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenocortical axis.

Herman JP(1), Cullinan WE.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Kentucky Medical Center,
Lexington 40536-0084, USA.

Integration of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal stress response occurs by way of
interactions between stress-sensitive brain circuitry and neuroendocrine neurons 
of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). Stressors involving an
immediate physiologic threat ('systemic' stressors) are relayed directly to the
PVN, probably via brainstem catecholaminergic projections. By contrast, stressors
requiring interpretation by higher brain structures ('processive' stressors)
appear to be channeled through limbic forebrain circuits. Forebrain limbic sites 
connect with the PVN via interactions with GABA-containing neurons in the bed
nucleus of the stria terminalis, preoptic area and hypothalamus. Thus, final
elaboration of processive stress responses is likely to involve modulation of PVN
GABAergic tone. The functional and neuroanatomical data obtained suggest that
disease processes involving inappropriate stress control involve dysfunction of
processive stress pathways.


PMID: 9023876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2093. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):72-7.

Sensorimotor stimulation to improve locomotor recovery after spinal cord injury.

Muir GD(1), Steeves JD.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Veterinary Physiological Sciences, Western College of Veterinary
Medicine, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, Canada.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):346-7.

Functional recovery after CNS injury may depend, in part, upon reorganization of 
undamaged neural pathways. Spinal cord circuits are capable of significant
reorganization, in the form of both activity-dependent and injury-induced
plasticity. This plasticity is manifest behaviourally in the ability of spinal
animals to learn new locomotor tasks. Recent work with spinal-injured humans
demonstrates that training can improve functional locomotor abilities. New
methodologies to enhance limb movement are designed to exploit further the
plastic capabilities of the spinal cord by reinforcing appropriate connections in
an activity-dependent manner. In the future, these methods might also prove
useful in guiding and strengthening functional synaptogenesis of regenerating
axons to maximize their contribution towards restoration of function.


PMID: 9023875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2094. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):67-72.

Ionic effects of the Alzheimer's disease beta-amyloid precursor protein and its
metabolic fragments.

Fraser SP(1), Suh YH, Djamgoz MB.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biology, Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, London,
UK.

Alzheimer's disease is a progressive dementia characterized in part by deposition
of proteinaceous plaques in various areas of the brain. The main plaque protein
component is beta-amyloid, a metabolic product of the beta-amyloid precursor
protein. Substantial evidence has implicated beta-amyloid (and other
amyloidogenic fragments of the precursor protein) with the neurodegeneration
observed in Alzheimer's disease. Recently, beta-amyloid precursor protein and its
amyloidogenic metabolic fragments have been shown to alter cellular ionic
activity, either through interaction with existing channels or by de novo channel
formation. Such alteration in ionic homeostasis has also been linked with
cellular toxicity and might provide a molecular mechanism underlying the
neurodegeneration seen in Alzheimer's disease.


PMID: 9023874  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2095. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):63-7.

Beta-interferon and multiple sclerosis.

Hall GL(1), Compston A, Scolding NJ.

Author information: 
(1)University of Cambridge Neurology Unit, Addenbrooke's Hospital, UK.

Interferon-beta (IFN-beta) is the first therapeutic intervention shown to alter
the natural history of multiple sclerosis (MS), a relapsing then progressive
inflammatory degenerative disease of the CNS. Since publication of the first
randomized placebo-controlled trial of IFN-beta, and subsequent acquisition of US
and European product licences for use in relapsing-remitting MS, the hopes and
expectations of patients have been elevated greatly only to be dampened as more
critical analysis of the trial results, in conjunction with the cost of
treatment, led to marked limitations on prescription in several countries.
IFN-beta is not a cure. Here we review what is known about the mechanisms of
action of IFN-beta in demyelinating disease, and propose a possible model of
action of IFN-beta in the treatment of MS.


PMID: 9023873  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2096. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):58-62.

How should brain nuclei be delineated? Consequences for developmental mechanisms 
and for correlations of area size, neuron numbers and functions of brain nuclei.

Gahr M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institut für Verhaltens-physiologie, Seewiesen, Germany.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):343-4; author reply 345-6.
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):345; author reply 345-6.
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):344-5; author reply 345-6.
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Aug;20(8):344; author reply 345-6.

The measurement of the size of brain areas and their neuron numbers depends on
the delineation of the boundaries of a brain area. The comparison of
cytoarchitectural, cytochemical and connectional delineation of a brain area,
such as the vocal control nucleus HVC (nucleus hyperstriatalis ventralis, pars
caudalis) of songbirds, shows that the estimated size of a nucleus depends on the
delineation criterion. In correlation, the cytoarchitectural, cytochemical and
projection properties of the same brain area change independently both during
development and in adulthood. This needs to be considered in cross-species,
intersexual, developmental and temporal comparisons of brain areas. The
combination of cytoarchitectural criteria with area-specific cytochemical and
connectional markers to delineate the boundaries of a brain nucleus gives new
insights into neural plasticity and parcelation of brain areas.


PMID: 9023872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2097. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):54-7.

Motor imagery: never in your wildest dream.

Crammond DJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Mental Health,
Poolesville, MD 20837, USA.


PMID: 9023871  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2098. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Feb;20(2):53-4.

Crete, channels, cells, circuits and computers.

Ullman S(1), Roth A, Thomson A, Linne ML.

Author information: 
(1)Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot, Israel.


PMID: 9023870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2099. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):44-9.

Human cortical oscillations: a neuromagnetic view through the skull.

Hari R(1), Salmelin R.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Unit, Helsinki University of Technology, Espoo, Finland.

The mammalian cerebral cortex generates a variety of rhythmic oscillations,
detectable directly from the cortex or the scalp. Recent non-invasive recordings 
from intact humans, by means of neuromagnetometers with large sensor arrays, have
shown that several regions of the healthy human cortex have their own intrinsic
rhythms, typically 8-40 Hz in frequency, with modality- and frequency-specific
reactivity. The conventional hypotheses about the functional significance of
brain rhythms extend from epiphenomena to perceptual binding and object
segmentation. Recent data indicate that some cortical rhythms can be related to
periodic activity of peripheral sensor and effector organs.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)10065-5 
PMID: 9004419  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2100. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):38-43.

Bursts as a unit of neural information: making unreliable synapses reliable.

Lisman JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Volen Center for Complex Systems, Biology Dept, Brandeis University, Waltham, 
MA 02254, USA.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):244.

Several lines of evidence indicate that brief (< 25 ms) bursts of high-frequency 
firing have special importance in brain function. Recent work shows that many
central synapses are surprisingly unreliable at signaling the arrival of single
presynaptic action potentials to the postsynaptic neuron. However, bursts are
reliably signaled because transmitter release is facilitated. Thus, these
synapses can be viewed as filters that transmit bursts, but filter out single
spikes. Bursts appear to have a special role in synaptic plasticity and
information processing. In the hippocampus, a single burst can produce long-term 
synaptic modifications. In brain structures whose computational role is known,
action potentials that arrive in bursts provide more-precise information than
action potentials that arrive singly. These results, and the requirement for
multiple inputs to fire a cell suggest that the best stimulus for exciting a cell
(that is, a neural code) is coincident bursts.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)10070-9 
PMID: 9004418  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2101. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):31-7.

Dopamine-cell depolarization block as a model for the therapeutic actions of
antipsychotic drugs.

Grace AA(1), Bunney BS, Moore H, Todd CL.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neuroscience, University of Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA.

Antipsychotic drugs used in the treatment of schizophrenia have in common the
property of being dopamine-receptor antagonists. However, the rapid timecourse of
receptor blockade produced upon drug administration does not correlate with the
emergence of clinical actions, which typically require weeks of treatment to
become manifest. Studies in rats have shown that repeated antipsychotic drug
treatment results in a delayed inactivation of dopamine-neuron firing in the
midbrain due to depolarization block. Furthermore, the therapeutic efficacy of
antipsychotic drugs in humans correlates with their ability to induce
depolarization block of mesolimbic dopamine neurons, whereas their potential to
produce extrapyramidal side effects correlates with their propensity for inducing
depolarization block in the nigrostriatal dopamine system. Therefore,
dopamine-cell depolarization block is an effective model for evaluating
antipsychotic drug efficacy, and provides a potential mechanism to account for
their therapeutic impact on a dysregulated dopamine system.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)10064-3 
PMID: 9004417  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2102. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):23-31.

The extracellular matrix in neural crest-cell migration.

Perris R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division for Experimental Oncology 2, Reference Center for Oncology, Aviano,
Italy.

The peripheral nervous system is created by a spatiotemporally co-ordinated
migratory process during which the precursor cells, the neural crest (NC) cells, 
transverse the embryo to reach distantly located sites. Original transplantation 
experiments implicated the extracellular matrix (ECM) as a pivotal factor in the 
regulation of this process, and subsequent in vitro and in vivo studies have
uncovered a number of ECM molecules potentially responsible for the NC cell-ECM
interaction. Recent genetic manipulations in mice sustain the importance of
certain matrix constituents, while precluding a significant role for others and, 
surprisingly, for all primary integrin receptors expressed by NC cells. The
gradually crystallizing paradigm envisions that guidance of the disseminating NC 
cells, as well as the arrest at their final tissue locations, is governed by
specific 'inhibitory' ECM-associated signals. This implies that homing of
peripheral neurons and their supportive cells might be dictated by a delicate
equilibrium between the multiple actions of stimulatory and inhibitory molecules,
which is modulated further by defined responses of the dispersing cells to these 
ECM components during their successive phases of phenotypic diversification.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)10063-1 
PMID: 9004416  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2103. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):22-3.

Another variety of vision.

Skoyles JR.

Comment on
    Trends Neurosci. 1996 Sep;19(9):401-6.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)20056-6 
PMID: 9004415  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2104. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):15-22.

Genes at the junction--candidates for congenital myasthenic syndromes.

Vincent A(1), Newland C, Croxen R, Beeson D.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Clinical Neurology, University of Oxford, UK.

The neuromuscular junction is the site of several myasthenic (mys, muscle;
aesthenia, weakness) disorders of autoimmune and genetic origin. The acquired
autoimmune conditions are mainly adult-onset and caused by antibodies to specific
neuronal and muscle ion channels, but can occur neonatally due to placental
transfer of maternal antibodies. This review focuses on the rarer genetic
conditions, called congenital myasthenic syndromes (CMS), that often present at
birth. Mutations have yet to be characterized for familial infantile myasthenia, 
acetylcholinesterase deficiency and ACh-receptor deficiency; but genes encoding
both structural and functional NMJ protiens should be considered. Other syndromes
have recently been shown to involve defects in the functioning of the ACh
receptor itself. In particular, eight different mutations have been reported in
cases of the slow channel syndrome, a dominant condition associated with point
mutations that generate single amino acid changes within the ACh receptor and
result in prolonged channel activations. These investigations are providing new
insights into the structure and function of the ACh receptor. Further studies of 
CMS should pave the way for analysis and treatment of disorders involving other
synapses in the peripheral and central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)10066-7 
PMID: 9004414  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2105. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):14.

Is EAG the answer to the M-current?

Mathie A(1), Watkins CS.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Pharmacology, Royal Free Hospital School of Medicine, London, UK.

The resemblance between the Drosophila EAG current and the mammalian M-current is
very strong, but final confirmation for a member of the extended EAG family
encoding the M-current remains to be determined.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)20057-8 
PMID: 9004413  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2106. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):13-4.

A physiological role for ether-à-go-go K+ channels?

Stansfeld C(1), Ludwig J, Roeper J, Weseloh R, Brown D, Pongs O.

Author information: 
(1)Zentrum für Moleculare Neurobiologie Hamburg, Universitäts Krankenhaus
Eppendorf, Germany.

Comment in
    Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jun;20(6):243-4.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)20058-X 
PMID: 9004412  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2107. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):9-12.

Glutamate receptors of the kainate type and synaptic transmission.

Lerma J(1), Morales M, Vicente MA, Herreras O.

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Neural Plasticity, Instituto Cajal, Consejo Superior de
Investigaciones Científicas, Madrid, Spain.

Glutamic acid is an important excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian CNS.
It has been established that synaptic transmission is mediated mostly by the
ionotropic glutamate receptors AMPA and NMDA, with fast and slow kinetics,
respectively. The recent demonstration in hippocampal neurones of a class of
glutamate receptors that are activated by kainate and not by AMPA (that is,
kainate-selective receptors) opens the possibility that receptors, others than
those of the AMPA type, might also be involved in fast neurotransmission. The
lack of specific pharmacological tools to dissect out AMPA from kainate receptors
has hampered the functional study of kainate receptors. However, the recent
finding that a 2,3-benzodiazepine (GYK153655) behaves as a selective antagonist
of AMPA receptors allows us to address the question of the role of rapidly
inactivating kainate receptors in synaptic transmission.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)20055-4 
PMID: 9004411  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2108. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):3-8.

Genetic analysis of axon guidance and mapping in the zebrafish.

Karlstrom RO(1), Trowe T, Bonhoeffer F.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Genetics Program, New York University Medical Center, NY 10016, 
USA.

Systematic genetic screens have been powerful tools in identifying genes
responsible for axon guidance in fruitflies and nematodes. This approach has now 
been extended to the study of axon guidance and the formation of topographic
neuronal connections in the vertebrate brain. A systematic genetic screen was
used to identify genes responsible for precise axon pathfinding and targeting in 
the retinotectal system of the zebrafish (Danio rerio). Over 30 genes were found 
that affect either: (1) retinal axon pathfinding to the contralateral tectal
lobe; or (2) the topographic connection between the eye and the tectum. The
zebrafish retinotectal mutants represent a new resource for the study of axon
guidance in the vertebrate brain.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)40005-4 
PMID: 9004410  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2109. Trends Neurosci. 1997 Jan;20(1):1-3.

Neurotrophic factors in action--new dogs and new tricks.

Tolkovsky A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Dept of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/S0166-2236(96)30017-9 
PMID: 9004409  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

