
1. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:325-46. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013934.

Face Processing Systems: From Neurons to Real-World Social Perception.

Freiwald W(1), Duchaine B(2), Yovel G(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)The Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10065; email:
Winrich.Freiwald@rockefeller.edu. (2)Psychological and Brain Sciences, Dartmouth 
College, Hanover, New Hampshire 03755. (3)School of Psychological Sciences, Tel
Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel 69978. (4)Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel
Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel 69978.

Primate face processing depends on a distributed network of interlinked
face-selective areas composed of face-selective neurons. In both humans and
macaques, the network is divided into a ventral stream and a dorsal stream, and
the functional similarities of the areas in humans and macaques indicate they are
homologous. Neural correlates for face detection, holistic processing, face
space, and other key properties of human face processing have been identified at 
the single neuron level, and studies providing causal evidence have established
firmly that face-selective brain areas are central to face processing. These
mechanisms give rise to our highly accurate familiar face recognition but also to
our error-prone performance with unfamiliar faces. This limitation of the face
system has important implications for consequential situations such as eyewitness
identification and policing.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013934 
PMID: 27442071  [PubMed - in process]


2. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:197-216. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033954.

From Cajal to Connectome and Beyond.

Swanson LW(1), Lichtman JW(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Southern California, Los
Angeles, California 90089; email: lswanson@usc.edu. (2)Department of Molecular
and Cellular Biology, Center for Brain Science, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02138; email: jeff@mcb.harvard.edu.

One goal of systems neuroscience is a structure-function model of nervous system 
organization that would allow mechanistic linking of mind, brain, and behavior. A
necessary but not sufficient foundation is a connectome, a complete matrix of
structural connections between the nodes of a nervous system. Connections between
two nodes can be described at four nested levels of analysis: macroconnections
between gray matter regions, mesoconnections between neuron types,
microconnections between individual neurons, and nanoconnections at synapses. A
long history of attempts to understand how the brain operates as a system began
at the macrolevel in the fifth century, was revolutionized at the meso- and
microlevels by Cajal and others in the late nineteenth century, and reached the
nanolevel in the mid-twentieth century with the advent of electron microscopy.
The greatest challenge today is extracting knowledge and understanding of nervous
system structure-function architecture from vast amounts of data.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033954 
PMID: 27442070  [PubMed - in process]


3. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:171-96. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013831.

3-D Maps and Compasses in the Brain.

Finkelstein A(1), Las L(1), Ulanovsky N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100,
Israel; email: nachum.ulanovsky@weizmann.ac.il.

The world has a complex, three-dimensional (3-D) spatial structure, but until
recently the neural representation of space was studied primarily in planar
horizontal environments. Here we review the emerging literature on allocentric
spatial representations in 3-D and discuss the relations between 3-D spatial
perception and the underlying neural codes. We suggest that the statistics of
movements through space determine the topology and the dimensionality of the
neural representation, across species and different behavioral modes. We argue
that hippocampal place-cell maps are metric in all three dimensions, and might be
composed of 2-D and 3-D fragments that are stitched together into a global 3-D
metric representation via the 3-D head-direction cells. Finally, we propose that 
the hippocampal formation might implement a neural analogue of a Kalman filter, a
standard engineering algorithm used for 3-D navigation.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013831 
PMID: 27442069  [PubMed - in process]


4. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:237-56. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013851. Epub 2016 Apr 21.

Correlations and Neuronal Population Information.

Kohn A(1,)(2), Coen-Cagli R(3), Kanitscheider I(3,)(4,)(5), Pouget A(3,)(6,)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Dominick Purpura Department of Neuroscience, Albert Einstein College of
Medicine, Bronx, New York 10461; email: adam.kohn@einstein.yu.edu. (2)Department 
of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx,
New York 10461. (3)Department of Basic Neuroscience, University of Geneva,
CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland; email: Ruben.CoenCagli@unige.ch ,
alexandre.pouget@unige.ch. (4)Center of Learning and Memory, The University of
Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas 78712; email: IKanitscheider@mail.clm.utexas.edu. 
(5)Department of Neuroscience, The University of Texas at Austin, Austin, Texas
78712. (6)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, University of Rochester,
Rochester, New York 14627. (7)Gatsby Computational Neuroscience Unit, University 
College London, W1T 4JG London, United Kingdom.

Brain function involves the activity of neuronal populations. Much recent effort 
has been devoted to measuring the activity of neuronal populations in different
parts of the brain under various experimental conditions. Population activity
patterns contain rich structure, yet many studies have focused on measuring
pairwise relationships between members of a larger population-termed noise
correlations. Here we review recent progress in understanding how these
correlations affect population information, how information should be quantified,
and what mechanisms may give rise to correlations. As population coding theory
has improved, it has made clear that some forms of correlation are more important
for information than others. We argue that this is a critical lesson for those
interested in neuronal population responses more generally: Descriptions of
population responses should be motivated by and linked to well-specified
function. Within this context, we offer suggestions of where current theoretical 
frameworks fall short.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013851 
PMCID: PMC5137197 [Available on 2017-07-08]
PMID: 27145916  [PubMed - in process]


5. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:297-324. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014106. Epub 2016 Apr 21.

Reward and Aversion.

Hu H(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Interdisciplinary Institute of Neuroscience and Technology, Qiushi Academy for
Advanced Studies, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310012, People's Republic of
China; email: huhailan@zju.edu.cn. (2)Center for Neuroscience, School of
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, People's Republic of China.

To benefit from opportunities and cope with challenges in the environment,
animals must adapt their behavior to acquire rewards and to avoid punishments.
Maladaptive changes in the neuromodulatory systems and neural circuits for reward
and aversion can lead to manifestation of several prominent psychiatric disorders
including addiction and depression. Recent progress is pushing the boundaries of 
knowledge on two major fronts in research on reward and aversion: First, new
layers of complexity have been reported on the functions of dopamine (DA) and
serotonin (5-HT) neuromodulatory systems in reward and aversion. Second, specific
circuit components in the neural pathways that encode reward and aversion have
begun to be identified. This review aims to outline historic perspectives and new
insights into the functions of DA and 5-HT systems in coding the distinct
components of rewards. It also highlights recent advances in neural circuit
studies enabled by new technologies, such as cell-type-specific electrophysiology
and tracing, and optogenetics-based behavioral manipulation. This knowledge may
provide guidance for developing novel treatment strategies for neuropsychiatric
diseases related to the malfunction of the reward system.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014106 
PMID: 27145915  [PubMed - in process]


6. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:385-407. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014045. Epub 2016 Apr 25.

Maps of the Auditory Cortex.

Brewer AA(1), Barton B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Sciences and Center for Hearing Research, University
of California, Irvine, California 92697; email: aabrewer@uci.edu ,
bbarton@uci.edu.

One of the fundamental properties of the mammalian brain is that sensory regions 
of cortex are formed of multiple, functionally specialized cortical field maps
(CFMs). Each CFM comprises two orthogonal topographical representations,
reflecting two essential aspects of sensory space. In auditory cortex, auditory
field maps (AFMs) are defined by the combination of tonotopic gradients,
representing the spectral aspects of sound (i.e., tones), with orthogonal
periodotopic gradients, representing the temporal aspects of sound (i.e., period 
or temporal envelope). Converging evidence from cytoarchitectural and
neuroimaging measurements underlies the definition of 11 AFMs across core and
belt regions of human auditory cortex, with likely homology to those of macaque. 
On a macrostructural level, AFMs are grouped into cloverleaf clusters, an
organizational structure also seen in visual cortex. Future research can now use 
these AFMs to investigate specific stages of auditory processing, key for
understanding behaviors such as speech perception and multimodal sensory
integration.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014045 
PMID: 27145914  [PubMed - in process]


7. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:409-35. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014023. Epub 2016 May 2.

The Genetic Basis of Hydrocephalus.

Kousi M(1), Katsanis N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Human Disease Modeling, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham,
North Carolina 27701; email: nicholas.katsanis@duke.edu.

Studies of syndromic hydrocephalus have led to the identification of >100
causative genes. Even though this work has illuminated numerous pathways
associated with hydrocephalus, it has also highlighted the fact that the genetics
underlying this phenotype are more complex than anticipated originally. Mendelian
forms of hydrocephalus account for a small fraction of the genetic burden, with
clear evidence of background-dependent effects of alleles on penetrance and
expressivity of driver mutations in key developmental and homeostatic pathways.
Here, we synthesize the currently implicated genes and inheritance paradigms
underlying hydrocephalus, grouping causal loci into functional modules that
affect discrete, albeit partially overlapping, cellular processes. These in turn 
have the potential to both inform pathomechanism and assist in the rational
molecular classification of a clinically heterogeneous phenotype. Finally, we
discuss conceptual methods that can lead to enhanced gene identification and
dissection of disease basis, knowledge that will potentially form a foundation
for the design of future therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014023 
PMID: 27145913  [PubMed - in process]


8. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:347-84. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113708. Epub 2016 Apr 25.

New Perspectives on Genomic Imprinting, an Essential and Multifaceted Mode of
Epigenetic Control in the Developing and Adult Brain.

Perez JD(1), Rubinstein ND(1), Dulac C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, Howard
Hughes Medical Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138; email:
dulac@fas.harvard.edu.

Mammalian evolution entailed multiple innovations in gene regulation, including
the emergence of genomic imprinting, an epigenetic regulation leading to the
preferential expression of a gene from its maternal or paternal allele. Genomic
imprinting is highly prevalent in the brain, yet, until recently, its central
roles in neural processes have not been fully appreciated. Here, we provide a
comprehensive survey of adult and developmental brain functions influenced by
imprinted genes, from neural development and wiring to synaptic function and
plasticity, energy balance, social behaviors, emotions, and cognition. We further
review the widespread identification of parental biases alongside monoallelic
expression in brain tissues, discuss their potential roles in dosage regulation
of key neural pathways, and suggest possible mechanisms underlying the dynamic
regulation of imprinting in the brain. This review should help provide a better
understanding of the significance of genomic imprinting in the normal and
pathological brain of mammals including humans.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113708 
PMCID: PMC5125552
PMID: 27145912  [PubMed - in process]


9. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:257-76. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013920. Epub 2016 Apr 21.

The Emergence of a Circuit Model for Addiction.

Lüscher C(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Basic Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, 
CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland; email: Christian.Luscher@unige.ch. (2)Clinic of
Neurology, Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Geneva University Hospital,
CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

Addiction is a disease of altered behavior. Addicts use drugs compulsively and
will continue to do so despite negative consequences. Even after prolonged
periods of abstinence, addicts are at risk of relapse, particularly when cues
evoke memories that are associated with drug use. Rodent models mimic many of the
core components of addiction, from the initial drug reinforcement to
cue-associated relapse and continued drug intake despite negative consequences.
Rodent models have also enabled unprecedented mechanistic insight into addiction,
revealing plasticity of glutamatergic synaptic transmission evoked by the strong 
activation of mesolimbic dopamine-a defining feature of all addictive drugs-as a 
neural substrate for these drug-adaptive behaviors. Cell type-specific
optogenetic manipulations have allowed both identification of the relevant
circuits and design of protocols to reverse drug-evoked plasticity and to
establish links of causality with drug-adaptive behaviors. The emergence of a
circuit model for addiction will open the door for novel therapies, such as deep 
brain stimulation.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013920 
PMID: 27145911  [PubMed - in process]


10. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:149-70. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013952. Epub 2016 Apr 18.

Dorsal Anterior Cingulate Cortex: A Bottom-Up View.

Heilbronner SR(1), Hayden BY(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Physiology, University of Rochester Medical
Center, Rochester, New York 14642. (2)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences 
and Center for Visual Science, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York
14627; email: benhayden@gmail.com.

The dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) has attracted great interest from
neuroscientists because it is associated with so many important cognitive
functions. Despite, or perhaps because of, its rich functional repertoire, we
lack a single comprehensive view of its function. Most research has approached
this puzzle from the top down, using aggregate measures such as neuroimaging. We 
provide a view from the bottom up, with a focus on single-unit responses and
anatomy. We summarize the strengths and weaknesses of the three major approaches 
to characterizing the dACC: as a monitor, as a controller, and as an economic
structure. We argue that neurons in the dACC are specialized for representing
contexts, or task-state variables relevant for behavior, and strategies, or
aspects of future plans. We propose that dACC neurons link contexts with
strategies by integrating diverse task-relevant information to create a rich
representation of task space and exert high-level and abstract control over
decision and action.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013952 
PMID: 27090954  [PubMed - in process]


11. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:277-95. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014031. Epub 2016 Apr 18.

Brain Disorders Due to Lysosomal Dysfunction.

Fraldi A(1), Klein AD(1), Medina DL(1), Settembre C(1,)(2,)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Telethon Institute of Genetics and Medicine (TIGEM), 80078 Pozzuoli, Italy.
(2)Dulbecco Telethon Institute, 80078 Pozzuoli, Italy. (3)Medical Genetics Unit, 
Department of Medical and Translational Science, Federico II University, 80131
Naples, Italy; email: fraldi@tigem.it , settembre@tigem.it.

Recent studies of autophagic and lysosomal pathways have significantly changed
our understanding of lysosomes; once thought to be simple degradative and
recycling centers, lysosomes are now known to be organelles capable of
influencing signal transduction, via the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 
(mTORC1), and regulating gene expression, via transcription factor EB (TFEB) and 
other transcription factors. These pathways are particularly relevant to
maintaining brain homeostasis, as dysfunction of the endolysosomal and autophagic
pathways has been associated with common neurodegenerative diseases, such as
Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's, and lysosomal storage disorders, a
group of inherited disorders characterized by the intralysosomal buildup of
partially degraded metabolites. This review focuses on the cellular biology of
lysosomes and discusses the possible mechanisms by which disruption of their
function contributes to neurodegeneration. We also review and discuss how
targeting TFEB and lysosomes may offer innovative therapeutic approaches for
treating a wide range of neurological conditions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014031 
PMID: 27090953  [PubMed - in process]


12. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:217-36. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013845. Epub 2016 Apr 18.

Computational Analysis of Behavior.

Egnor SE(1), Branson K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Janelia Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn, Virginia
20147; email: egnorr@janelia.hhmi.org , bransonk@janelia.hhmi.org.

In this review, we discuss the emerging field of computational behavioral
analysis-the use of modern methods from computer science and engineering to
quantitatively measure animal behavior. We discuss aspects of experiment design
important to both obtaining biologically relevant behavioral data and enabling
the use of machine vision and learning techniques for automation. These two goals
are often in conflict. Restraining or restricting the environment of the animal
can simplify automatic behavior quantification, but it can also degrade the
quality or alter important aspects of behavior. To enable biologists to design
experiments to obtain better behavioral measurements, and computer scientists to 
pinpoint fruitful directions for algorithm improvement, we review known effects
of artificial manipulation of the animal on behavior. We also review machine
vision and learning techniques for tracking, feature extraction, automated
behavior classification, and automated behavior discovery, the assumptions they
make, and the types of data they work best with.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013845 
PMID: 27090952  [PubMed - in process]


13. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:129-47. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033919. Epub 2016 Apr 8.

Neuronal Mechanisms of Visual Categorization: An Abstract View on Decision
Making.

Freedman DJ(1,)(2), Assad JA(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637;
email: dfreedman@uchicago.edu. (2)The Grossman Institute for Neuroscience,
Quantitative Biology, and Human Behavior, University of Chicago, Chicago,
Illinois 60637. (3)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115; email: jassad@hms.harvard.edu. (4)Istituto Italiano di
Tecnologia, 16163 Genova, Italy.

Categorization is our ability to flexibly assign sensory stimuli into discrete,
behaviorally relevant groupings. Categorical decisions can be used to study
decision making more generally by dissociating category identity of stimuli from 
the actions subjects use to signal their decisions. Here we discuss the evidence 
for such abstract categorical encoding in the primate brain and consider the
relationship with other perceptual decision paradigms. Recent work on visual
categorization has examined neuronal activity across a hierarchically organized
network of cortical areas in monkeys trained to group visual stimuli into
arbitrary categories. This has revealed a transformation of visual-feature
encoding in early visual cortical areas into more flexible categorical
representations in downstream parietal and prefrontal areas. These neuronal
category representations are encoded as abstract internal cognitive states
because they are not rigidly linked with either specific sensory stimuli or the
actions that the monkeys use to signal their categorical choices.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033919 
PMID: 27070552  [PubMed - in process]


14. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:41-56. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013927.
Epub 2016 Apr 4.

Ant Genetics: Reproductive Physiology, Worker Morphology, and Behavior.

Friedman DA(1), Gordon DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305-5020;
email: dmgordon@stanford.edu.

Many exciting studies have begun to elucidate the genetics of the morphological
and physiological diversity of ants, but as yet few studies have investigated the
genetics of ant behavior directly. Ant genomes are marked by extreme rates of
gene turnover, especially in gene families related to olfactory communication,
such as the synthesis of cuticular hydrocarbons and the perception of
environmental semiochemicals. Transcriptomic and epigenetic differences are
apparent between reproductive and sterile females, males and females, and workers
that differ in body size. Quantitative genetic approaches suggest heritability of
task performance, and population genetic studies indicate a genetic association
with reproductive status in some species. Gene expression is associated with
behavior including foraging, response to queens attempting to join a colony,
circadian patterns of task performance, and age-related changes of task. Ant
behavioral genetics needs further investigation of the feedback between
individual-level physiological changes and socially mediated responses to
environmental conditions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013927 
PMID: 27050321  [PubMed - in process]


15. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:57-79. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014015.
Epub 2016 Apr 4.

Alzheimer's Disease Mechanisms and Emerging Roads to Novel Therapeutics.

Sala Frigerio C(1,)(2,)(3), De Strooper B(1,)(2,)(3,)(4).

Author information: 
(1)VIB Center for the Biology of Disease, Vlaams Instituut voor Biotechnologie,
Leuven 3000, Belgium; email: carlo.salafrigerio@cme.vib-kuleuven.be ,
bart.destrooper@cme.vib-kuleuven.be. (2)Center for Human Genetics, KU Leuven,
Leuven 3000, Belgium. (3)Leuven Research Institute for Neuroscience & Disease
(LIND), KU Leuven, Leuven 3000, Belgium. (4)Institute of Neurology, University
College London, WC1N 3BG London, United Kingdom.

Ten years of remarkable progress in understanding the fundamental biochemistry of
Alzheimer's disease have been followed by ten years of remarkable and increasing 
clinical insight into the natural progression of the disorder. The concept of a
long, intermediary, prodromal phase between the first appearance of amyloid
plaques and tangles and the manifestation of dementia is now well established.
The major challenge for the next decade is to chart the many cellular processes
that underlie this phase and link the biochemical alterations to the clinical
manifestation of Alzheimer's disease. We discuss here how genetics, new cell
culture systems, and improved animal models will fuel this work. We anticipate
that the resulting novel insights will provide a basis for further drug
development for this terrible disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014015 
PMID: 27050320  [PubMed - in process]


16. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:103-28. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013815. Epub 2016 Apr 1.

Clarifying Human White Matter.

Wandell BA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Stanford Neurosciences Institute, Stanford
University, Stanford, California 94305; email: Wandell@stanford.edu.

Progress in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) now makes it possible to identify
the major white matter tracts in the living human brain. These tracts are
important because they carry many of the signals communicated between different
brain regions. MRI methods coupled with biophysical modeling can measure the
tissue properties and structural features of the tracts that impact our ability
to think, feel, and perceive. This review describes the fundamental ideas of the 
MRI methods used to identify the major white matter tracts in the living human
brain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013815 
PMID: 27050319  [PubMed - in process]


17. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:1-17. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014038. 
Epub 2016 Feb 24.

Beyond the CB1 Receptor: Is Cannabidiol the Answer for Disorders of Motivation?

Zlebnik NE(1), Cheer JF(1,)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of Maryland School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21201; email: nzlebnik@som.umaryland.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Maryland School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21201; email: jcheer@som.umaryland.edu.

The Cannabis sativa plant has been used to treat various physiological and
psychiatric conditions for millennia. Current research is focused on isolating
potentially therapeutic chemical constituents from the plant for use in the
treatment of many central nervous system disorders. Of particular interest is the
primary nonpsychoactive constituent cannabidiol (CBD). Unlike
Δ(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), CBD does not act through the cannabinoid type 1 
(CB1) receptor but has many other receptor targets that may play a role in
psychiatric disorders. Here we review preclinical and clinical data outlining the
therapeutic efficacy of CBD for the treatment of motivational disorders such as
drug addiction, anxiety, and depression. Across studies, findings suggest
promising treatment effects and potentially overlapping mechanisms of action for 
CBD in these disorders and indicate the need for further systematic investigation
of the viability of CBD as a psychiatric pharmacotherapy.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-014038 
PMID: 27023732  [PubMed - in process]


18. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:19-40. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013824.
Epub 2016 Mar 9.

Ten Years of Grid Cells.

Rowland DC(1), Roudi Y(1), Moser MB(1), Moser EI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Systems Neuroscience and Centre for Neural Computation,
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 7491 Trondheim, Norway; email:
david.c.rowland@ntnu.no , yasser.roudi@ntnu.no , may-britt.moser@ntnu.no ,
edvard.moser@ntnu.no.

The medial entorhinal cortex (MEC) creates a neural representation of space
through a set of functionally dedicated cell types: grid cells, border cells,
head direction cells, and speed cells. Grid cells, the most abundant functional
cell type in the MEC, have hexagonally arranged firing fields that tile the
surface of the environment. These cells were discovered only in 2005, but after
10 years of investigation, we are beginning to understand how they are organized 
in the MEC network, how their periodic firing fields might be generated, how they
are shaped by properties of the environment, and how they interact with the rest 
of the MEC network. The aim of this review is to summarize what we know about
grid cells and point out where our knowledge is still incomplete.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013824 
PMID: 27023731  [PubMed - in process]


19. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2016 Jul 8;39:81-101. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013913. Epub 2016 Mar 25.

Human Spinal Motor Control.

Nielsen JB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Pharmacology and Department of Nutrition,
Exercise and Sports, University of Copenhagen, DK-2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark;
email: jbnielsen@sund.ku.dk.

Human studies in the past three decades have provided us with an emerging
understanding of how cortical and spinal networks collaborate to ensure the vast 
repertoire of human behaviors. Humans have direct cortical connections to spinal 
motoneurons, which bypass spinal interneurons and exert a direct (willful) muscle
control with the aid of a context-dependent integration of somatosensory and
visual information at cortical level. However, spinal networks also play an
important role. Sensory feedback through spinal circuitries is integrated with
central motor commands and contributes importantly to the muscle activity
underlying voluntary movements. Regulation of spinal interneurons is used to
switch between motor states such as locomotion (reciprocal innervation) and
stance (coactivation pattern). Cortical regulation of presynaptic inhibition of
sensory afferents may focus the central motor command by opening or closing
sensory feedback pathways. In the future, human studies of spinal motor control, 
in close collaboration with animal studies on the molecular biology of the spinal
cord, will continue to document the neural basis for human behavior.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-070815-013913 
PMID: 27023730  [PubMed - in process]


20. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:369-88. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033904.

New opportunities in vasopressin and oxytocin research: a perspective from the
amygdala.

Stoop R(1), Hegoburu C, van den Burg E.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Psychiatric Neuroscience, Lausanne University Hospital, 1008
Prilly, Lausanne, Switzerland; email: rstoop@unil.ch.

In the present review, we discuss how the evolution of oxytocin and vasopressin
from a single ancestor peptide after gene duplication has stimulated the
development of the vertebrate social brain. Separate production sites became
possible with a hypothalamic development, which, interestingly, is triggered by
the same transcription factors that underlie the development of various
subcortical regions where vasopressin and oxytocin receptors are adjacently
expressed and which are connected by inhibitory circuits. The opposite modulation
of their output by vasopressin and oxytocin could thus create a dynamic
equilibrium for rapid responsiveness to external stimuli. At the level of the
individual, nurturing early in life can long-lastingly program oxytocin
signaling, maintaining a capability of learning and sensitivity to external
stimuli that contributes to development of social behavior in adulthood. Oxytocin
and vasopressin are thus important for the development of a vertebrate brain that
supports bonding between individuals and building of an interactive community.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033904 
PMID: 26154981  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:351-68. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033911.

Levels of homology and the problem of neocortex.

Dugas-Ford J(1), Ragsdale CW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois 60637; email: neurojen@gmail.com.

The neocortex is found only in mammals, and the fossil record is silent on how
this soft tissue evolved. Understanding neocortex evolution thus devolves to a
search for candidate homologous neocortex traits in the extant nonmammalian
amniotes. The difficulty is that homology is based on similarity, and the
six-layered neocortex structure could hardly be more dissimilar in appearance
from the nuclear organization that is so conspicuous in the dorsal telencephalon 
of birds and other reptiles. Recent molecular data have, however, provided new
support for one prominent hypothesis, based on neuronal circuits, that proposes
the principal neocortical input and output cell types are a conserved feature of 
amniote dorsal telencephalon. Many puzzles remain, the greatest being
understanding the selective pressures and molecular mechanisms that underlie such
tremendous morphological variation in telencephalon structure.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033911 
PMID: 26154980  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:309-29. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014229.

How inhibitory circuits in the thalamus serve vision.

Hirsch JA(1), Wang X, Sommer FT, Martinez LM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences/Neurobiology, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles, California 90089-2520; email: jhirsch@usc.edu.

Inhibitory neurons dominate the intrinsic circuits in the visual thalamus.
Interneurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus innervate relay cells and each
other densely to provide powerful inhibition. The visual sector of the overlying 
thalamic reticular nucleus receives input from relay cells and supplies feedback 
inhibition to them in return. Together, these two inhibitory circuits influence
all information transmitted from the retina to the primary visual cortex. By
contrast, relay cells make few local connections. This review explores the role
of thalamic inhibition from the dual perspectives of feature detection and
information theory. For example, we describe how inhibition sharpens tuning for
spatial and temporal features of the stimulus and how it might enhance image
perception. We also discuss how inhibitory circuits help to reduce redundancy in 
signals sent downstream and, at the same time, are adapted to maximize the amount
of information conveyed to the cortex.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014229 
PMID: 26154979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:151-70. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034054.

An integrative model of the maturation of cognitive control.

Luna B(1), Marek S, Larsen B, Tervo-Clemmens B, Chahal R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry.

Brains systems undergo unique and specific dynamic changes at the cellular,
circuit, and systems level that underlie the transition to adult-level cognitive 
control. We integrate literature from these different levels of analyses to
propose a novel model of the brain basis of the development of cognitive control.
The ability to consistently exert cognitive control improves into adulthood as
the flexible integration of component processes, including inhibitory control,
performance monitoring, and working memory, increases. Unique maturational
changes in brain structure, supported by interactions between dopaminergic and
GABAergic systems, contribute to enhanced network synchronization and an improved
signal-to-noise ratio. In turn, these factors facilitate the specialization and
strengthening of connectivity in networks supporting the transition to adult
levels of cognitive control. This model provides a novel understanding of the
adolescent period as an adaptive period of heightened experience-seeking
necessary for the specialization of brain systems supporting cognitive control.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034054 
PMID: 26154978  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:331-49. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034145. Epub 2015 Apr 22.

Chemosensory receptor specificity and regulation.

Dalton RP(1), Lomvardas S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy.

The senses provide a means by which data on the physical and chemical properties 
of the environment may be collected and meaningfully interpreted. Sensation
begins at the periphery, where a multitude of different sensory cell types are
activated by environmental stimuli as different as photons and odorant molecules.
Stimulus sensitivity is due to expression of different cell surface sensory
receptors, and therefore the receptive field of each sense is defined by the
aggregate of expressed receptors in each sensory tissue. Here, we review current 
understanding on patterns of expression and modes of regulation of sensory
receptors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034145 
PMCID: PMC4882759
PMID: 25938729  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:389-411. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014243. Epub 2015 Apr 30.

In search of a human self-regulation system.

Kelley WM(1), Wagner DD, Heatherton TF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Dartmouth College, Hanover,
New Hampshire 03755; email: william.kelley@dartmouth.edu.

The capacity for self-regulation allows people to control their thoughts,
behaviors, emotions, and desires. In spite of this impressive ability, failures
of self-regulation are common and contribute to numerous societal problems, from 
obesity to drug addiction. Such failures frequently occur following exposure to
highly tempting cues, during negative moods, or after self-regulatory resources
have been depleted. Here we review the available neuroscientific evidence
regarding self-regulation and its failures. At its core, self-regulation involves
a critical balance between the strength of an impulse and an individual's ability
to inhibit the desired behavior. Although neuroimaging and patient studies
provide consistent evidence regarding the reward aspects of impulses and desires,
the neural mechanisms that underlie the capacity for control have eluded
consensus, with various executive control regions implicated in different
studies. We outline the necessary properties for a self-regulation control system
and suggest that the use of resting-state functional connectivity analyses may be
useful for understanding how people regulate their behavior and why they
sometimes fail in their attempts.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014243 
PMCID: PMC4530781
PMID: 25938728  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:413-31. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033807. Epub 2015 Apr 30.

Cell types, circuits, and receptive fields in the mouse visual cortex.

Niell CM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology and Institute of Neuroscience, University of Oregon,
Eugene, Oregon 97403-1254; email: cniell@uoregon.edu.

Over the past decade, the mouse has emerged as an important model system for
studying cortical function, owing to the advent of powerful tools that can record
and manipulate neural activity in intact neural circuits. This advance has been
particularly prominent in the visual cortex, where studies in the mouse have
begun to bridge the gap between cortical structure and function, allowing
investigators to determine the circuits that underlie specific visual
computations. This review describes the advances in our understanding of the
mouse visual cortex, including neural coding, the role of different cell types,
and links between vision and behavior, and discusses how recent findings and new 
approaches can guide future studies.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033807 
PMID: 25938727  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:433-47. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014030. Epub 2015 May 4.

The brain's default mode network.

Raichle ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110; email:
marc@npg.wustl.edu.

The brain's default mode network consists of discrete, bilateral and symmetrical 
cortical areas, in the medial and lateral parietal, medial prefrontal, and medial
and lateral temporal cortices of the human, nonhuman primate, cat, and rodent
brains. Its discovery was an unexpected consequence of brain-imaging studies
first performed with positron emission tomography in which various novel,
attention-demanding, and non-self-referential tasks were compared with quiet
repose either with eyes closed or with simple visual fixation. The default mode
network consistently decreases its activity when compared with activity during
these relaxed nontask states. The discovery of the default mode network reignited
a longstanding interest in the significance of the brain's ongoing or intrinsic
activity. Presently, studies of the brain's intrinsic activity, popularly
referred to as resting-state studies, have come to play a major role in studies
of the human brain in health and disease. The brain's default mode network plays 
a central role in this work.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014030 
PMID: 25938726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:171-94. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034111. Epub 2015 Apr 6.

Long-range neural synchrony in behavior.

Harris AZ(1), Gordon JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032;
email: ah2835@columbia.edu , jg343@columbia.edu.

Long-range synchrony between distant brain regions accompanies multiple forms of 
behavior. This review compares and contrasts the methods by which long-range
synchrony is evaluated in both humans and model animals. Three examples of
behaviorally relevant long-range synchrony are discussed in detail:
gamma-frequency synchrony during visual perception, hippocampal-prefrontal
synchrony during working memory, and prefrontal-amygdala synchrony during
anxiety. Implications for circuit mechanism, translation, and clinical relevance 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034111 
PMCID: PMC4497851
PMID: 25897876  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:195-219. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034002. Epub 2015 Apr 9.

Plasticity of cortical excitatory-inhibitory balance.

Froemke RC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Skirball Institute for Biomolecular Medicine, Neuroscience Institute, and
Departments of Otolaryngology, Neuroscience, and Physiology, New York University 
School of Medicine, New York, NY 10016; email: robert.froemke@med.nyu.edu.

Synapses are highly plastic and are modified by changes in patterns of neural
activity or sensory experience. Plasticity of cortical excitatory synapses is
thought to be important for learning and memory, leading to alterations in
sensory representations and cognitive maps. However, these changes must be
coordinated across other synapses within local circuits to preserve neural coding
schemes and the organization of excitatory and inhibitory inputs, i.e.,
excitatory-inhibitory balance. Recent studies indicate that inhibitory synapses
are also plastic and are controlled directly by a large number of
neuromodulators, particularly during episodes of learning. Many modulators
transiently alter excitatory-inhibitory balance by decreasing inhibition, and
thus disinhibition has emerged as a major mechanism by which neuromodulation
might enable long-term synaptic modifications naturally. This review examines the
relationships between neuromodulation and synaptic plasticity, focusing on the
induction of long-term changes that collectively enhance cortical
excitatory-inhibitory balance for improving perception and behavior.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034002 
PMCID: PMC4652600
PMID: 25897875  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:221-46. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034120. Epub 2015 Apr 9.

The types of retinal ganglion cells: current status and implications for neuronal
classification.

Sanes JR(1), Masland RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Center for Brain Science,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138; email:
sanesj@mcb.harvard.edu.

In the retina, photoreceptors pass visual information to interneurons, which
process it and pass it to retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Axons of RGCs then
travel through the optic nerve, telling the rest of the brain all it will ever
know about the visual world. Research over the past several decades has made
clear that most RGCs are not merely light detectors, but rather feature
detectors, which send a diverse set of parallel, highly processed images of the
world on to higher centers. Here, we review progress in classification of RGCs by
physiological, morphological, and molecular criteria, making a particular effort 
to distinguish those cell types that are definitive from those for which
information is partial. We focus on the mouse, in which molecular and genetic
methods are most advanced. We argue that there are around 30 RGC types and that
we can now account for well over half of all RGCs. We also use RGCs to examine
the general problem of neuronal classification, arguing that insights and methods
from the retina can guide the classification enterprise in other brain regions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034120 
PMID: 25897874  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:127-49. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033821. Epub 2015 Apr 9.

Glutamate synapses in human cognitive disorders.

Volk L(1), Chiu SL, Sharma K, Huganir RL.

Author information: 
(1)Solomon H. Snyder Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205; email: rhuganir@jhmi.edu.

Accumulating data, including those from large genetic association studies,
indicate that alterations in glutamatergic synapse structure and function
represent a common underlying pathology in many symptomatically distinct
cognitive disorders. In this review, we discuss evidence from human genetic
studies and data from animal models supporting a role for aberrant glutamatergic 
synapse function in the etiology of intellectual disability (ID), autism spectrum
disorder (ASD), and schizophrenia (SCZ), neurodevelopmental disorders that
comprise a significant proportion of human cognitive disease and exact a
substantial financial and social burden. The varied manifestations of impaired
perceptual processing, executive function, social interaction, communication,
and/or intellectual ability in ID, ASD, and SCZ appear to emerge from altered
neural microstructure, function, and/or wiring rather than gross changes in
neuron number or morphology. Here, we review evidence that these disorders may
share a common underlying neuropathy: altered excitatory synapse function. We
focus on the most promising candidate genes affecting glutamatergic synapse
function, highlighting the likely disease-relevant functional consequences of
each. We first present a brief overview of glutamatergic synapses and then
explore the genetic and phenotypic evidence for altered glutamate signaling in
ID, ASD, and SCZ.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033821 
PMID: 25897873  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:247-68. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014038. Epub 2015 Apr 9.

Global order and local disorder in brain maps.

Rothschild G(1), Mizrahi A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Center for Integrative Neuroscience, University
of California, San Francisco, California 94158; email: gideon@phy.ucsf.edu.

Maps serve as a ubiquitous organizing principle in the mammalian brain. In
several sensory systems, such as audition, vision, and somatosensation,
topographic maps are evident throughout multiple levels of brain pathways.
Topographic maps, like retinotopy and tonotopy, persist from the receptor surface
up to the cortex. Other maps, such as those of orientation preference in the
visual cortex, are first created in the cortex itself. Despite the prevalence of 
topographic maps, it is still not clear what function they subserve. Although
maps are topographically smooth at the macroscale, they are often locally
heterogeneous. Here, we review studies describing the anatomy and physiology of
topographic maps across various spatial scales, from the smooth macroscale to the
heterogeneous local microarchitecture, with emphasis on maps of the visual and
auditory systems. We discuss the potential advantages of local heterogeneity in
brain maps, how they reflect complex cortical connectivity, and how they may
impact sensory coding and local computations.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014038 
PMID: 25897872  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:269-89. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033936. Epub 2015 Apr 16.

General cortical and special prefrontal connections: principles from structure to
function.

Barbas H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neural Systems Laboratory, Department of Health Sciences; Graduate Program in 
Neuroscience; School of Medicine; Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215;
email: barbas@bu.edu.

How is the vast brain communication system organized? A structural model relates 
connections to laminar differences between linked areas. The model is based on
the principle of systematic structural variation in the cortex, extending from
the simplest limbic cortices to eulaminate areas with elaborate lamination. The
model accounts for laminar patterns and for the strength and topography of
connections between nearby or distant cortices and subcortical structures,
exemplified quantitatively for the principal and special prefrontal connections. 
Widespread connections of limbic areas and focal connections of eulaminate areas 
yield a broad range of circuit patterns for diverse functions. These diverse
pathways innervate excitatory and functionally distinct inhibitory neurons,
providing the basis for differential recruitment of areas for flexible behavior. 
Systematic structural variation likely emerges by timing differences in the
development of distinct areas and has important implications for altered
connections in diseases of developmental origin.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033936 
PMID: 25897871  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:291-307. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034128. Epub 2015 Apr 16.

Cortical folding: when, where, how, and why?

Striedter GF(1), Srinivasan S, Monuki ES.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Behavior.

Why the cerebral cortex folds in some mammals but not in others has long
fascinated and mystified neurobiologists. Over the past century-especially the
past decade-researchers have used theory and experiment to support different
folding mechanisms such as tissue buckling from mechanical stress, axon
tethering, localized proliferation, and external constraints. In this review, we 
synthesize these mechanisms into a unifying framework and introduce a hitherto
unappreciated mechanism, the radial intercalation of new neurons at the top of
the cortical plate, as a likely proximate force for tangential expansion that
then leads to cortical folding. The interplay between radial intercalation and
various biasing factors, such as local variations in proliferation rate and
connectivity, can explain the formation of both random and stereotypically
positioned folds.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034128 
PMID: 25897870  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:69-86. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034028.
Epub 2015 Mar 30.

Visual guidance in control of grasping.

Janssen P(1), Scherberger H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Laboratory for Neuro- and Psychophysiology, KU
Leuven, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium; email: Peter.Janssen@med.kuleuven.be.

Humans and other primates possess a unique capacity to grasp and manipulate
objects skillfully, a facility pervasive in everyday life that has undoubtedly
contributed to the success of our species. When we reach and grasp an object,
various cortical areas in the parietal and frontal lobes work together
effortlessly to analyze object shape and position, transform this visual
information into useful motor commands, and implement these motor representations
to preshape the hand before contact with the object is made. In recent years, a
growing number of studies have investigated the neural circuits underlying object
grasping in both the visual and motor systems of the macaque monkey. The
accumulated knowledge not only helps researchers understand how object grasping
is implemented in the primate brain but may also contribute to the development of
novel neural interfaces and neuroprosthetics.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034028 
PMID: 25840009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:87-103. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033828. Epub 2015 Mar 30.

Neurodegenerative diseases: expanding the prion concept.

Walker LC(1), Jucker M.

Author information: 
(1)Yerkes National Primate Research Center and.

The prion paradigm has emerged as a unifying molecular principle for the
pathogenesis of many age-related neurodegenerative diseases. This paradigm holds 
that a fundamental cause of specific disorders is the misfolding and seeded
aggregation of certain proteins. The concept arose from the discovery that
devastating brain diseases called spongiform encephalopathies are transmissible
to new hosts by agents consisting solely of a misfolded protein, now known as the
prion protein. Accordingly, "prion" was defined as a "proteinaceous infectious
particle." As the concept has expanded to include other diseases, many of which
are not infectious by any conventional definition, the designation of prions as
infectious agents has become problematic. We propose to define prions as
"proteinaceous nucleating particles" to highlight the molecular action of the
agents, lessen unwarranted apprehension about the transmissibility of
noninfectious proteopathies, and promote the wider acceptance of this
revolutionary paradigm by the biomedical community.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033828 
PMCID: PMC4803040
PMID: 25840008  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:47-68. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034136.
Epub 2015 Apr 2.

The genetics of neuropsychiatric diseases: looking in and beyond the exome.

Heinzen EL(1), Neale BM, Traynelis SF, Allen AS, Goldstein DB.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Genomic Medicine.

Next-generation sequencing, which allows genome-wide detection of rare and de
novo mutations, is transforming neuropsychiatric disease genetics through
identifying on an unprecedented scale genes and protein-coding mutations that
confer risk. Although understanding how regulatory variants influence risk
remains a challenge, we are likely transitioning into a phase of neuropsychiatric
disease genetics in which the rate-limiting step may no longer be gene discovery.
Instead, the future will concentrate more on the biological and clinical
translation of the torrent of specific risk mutations identified through
next-generation sequencing. Here, we review the recent progress that resulted
specifically from exome sequencing and emphasize the need for rigorous
statistical evaluation of the expanding data sets, as well as expanded functional
analysis of implicated proteins and mutations. Then, we introduce some of the
expected opportunities and challenges investigators face when moving beyond the
exome. Finally, we briefly highlight the challenge of deriving translational
benefit from the progress in genetics.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034136 
PMID: 25840007  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:105-25. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034019. Epub 2015 Apr 2.

Neurological aspects of human glycosylation disorders.

Freeze HH(1), Eklund EA, Ng BG, Patterson MC.

Author information: 
(1)Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037; email:
hudson@sanfordburnham.org , bobbyng@sanfordburnham.org.

This review presents principles of glycosylation, describes the relevant
glycosylation pathways and their related disorders, and highlights some of the
neurological aspects and issues that continue to challenge researchers. More than
100 rare human genetic disorders that result from deficiencies in the different
glycosylation pathways are known today. Most of these disorders impact the
central and/or peripheral nervous systems. Patients typically have developmental 
delays/intellectual disabilities, hypotonia, seizures, neuropathy, and metabolic 
abnormalities in multiple organ systems. Among these disorders there is great
clinical diversity because all cell types differentially glycosylate proteins and
lipids. The patients have hundreds of misglycosylated products, which afflict a
myriad of processes, including cell signaling, cell-cell interaction, and cell
migration. This vast complexity in glycan composition and function, along with
the limited availability of analytic tools, has impeded the identification of key
glycosylated molecules that cause pathologies. To date, few critical target
proteins have been pinpointed.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-034019 
PMCID: PMC4809143
PMID: 25840006  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:25-46. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033835.
Epub 2015 Mar 12.

Neuronal and vascular interactions.

Andreone BJ(1), Lacoste B, Gu C.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115; email: bandreone@fas.harvard.edu , Baptiste_Lacoste@hms.harvard.edu ,
Chenghua_Gu@hms.harvard.edu.

The brain, which represents 2% of body mass but consumes 20% of body energy at
rest, has a limited capacity to store energy and is therefore highly dependent on
oxygen and glucose supply from the blood stream. Normal functioning of neural
circuits thus relies on adequate matching between metabolic needs and blood
supply. Moreover, not only does the brain need to be densely vascularized, it
also requires a tightly controlled environment free of toxins and pathogens to
provide the proper chemical composition for synaptic transmission and neuronal
function. In this review, we focus on three major factors that ensure optimal
brain perfusion and function: the patterning of vascular networks to efficiently 
deliver blood and nutrients, the function of the blood-brain barrier to maintain 
brain homeostasis, and the regulation of cerebral blood flow to adequately couple
energy supply to neural function.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033835 
PMID: 25782970  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2015 Jul 8;38:1-23. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033928. 
Epub 2015 Feb 11.

Depression: a decision-theoretic analysis.

Huys QJ(1), Daw ND, Dayan P.

Author information: 
(1)Translational Neuromodeling Unit, Institute for Biomedical Engineering,
University of Zürich and Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) Zürich,
CH-8032 Zürich, Switzerland; email: qhuys@cantab.net.

The manifold symptoms of depression are common and often transient features of
healthy life that are likely to be adaptive in difficult circumstances. It is
when these symptoms enter a seemingly self-propelling spiral that the maladaptive
features of a disorder emerge. We examine this malignant transformation from the 
perspective of the computational neuroscience of decision making, investigating
how dysfunction of the brain's mechanisms of evaluation might lie at its heart.
We start by considering the behavioral implications of pessimistic evaluations of
decision variables. We then provide a selective review of work suggesting how
such pessimism might arise via specific failures of the mechanisms of evaluation 
or state estimation. Finally, we analyze ways that miscalibration between the
subject and environment may be self-perpetuating. We employ the formal framework 
of Bayesian decision theory as a foundation for this study, showing how most of
the problems arise from one of its broad algorithmic facets, namely model-based
reasoning.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071714-033928 
PMID: 25705929  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:503-31. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150447.

Neuropeptidergic control of sleep and wakefulness.

Richter C(1), Woods IG, Schier AF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Center for Brain Science,
Division of Sleep Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138;
email: crichter@fas.harvard.edu , schier@fas.harvard.edu.

Sleep and wake are fundamental behavioral states whose molecular regulation
remains mysterious. Brain states and body functions change dramatically between
sleep and wake, are regulated by circadian and homeostatic processes, and depend 
on the nutritional and emotional condition of the animal. Sleep-wake transitions 
require the coordination of several brain regions and engage multiple
neurochemical systems, including neuropeptides. Neuropeptides serve two main
functions in sleep-wake regulation. First, they represent physiological states
such as energy level or stress in response to environmental and internal stimuli.
Second, neuropeptides excite or inhibit their target neurons to induce,
stabilize, or switch between sleep-wake states. Thus, neuropeptides integrate
physiological subsystems such as circadian time, previous neuron usage, energy
homeostasis, and stress and growth status to generate appropriate sleep-wake
behaviors. We review the roles of more than 20 neuropeptides in sleep and wake to
lay the foundation for future studies uncovering the mechanisms that underlie the
initiation, maintenance, and exit of sleep and wake states.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150447 
PMID: 25032501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:409-34. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170320.

Meta-analysis in human neuroimaging: computational modeling of large-scale
databases.

Fox PT(1), Lancaster JL, Laird AR, Eickhoff SB.

Author information: 
(1)Research Imaging Institute and.

Spatial normalization--applying standardized coordinates as anatomical addresses 
within a reference space--was introduced to human neuroimaging research nearly 30
years ago. Over these three decades, an impressive series of methodological
advances have adopted, extended, and popularized this standard. Collectively,
this work has generated a methodologically coherent literature of unprecedented
rigor, size, and scope. Large-scale online databases have compiled these
observations and their associated meta-data, stimulating the development of
meta-analytic methods to exploit this expanding corpus. Coordinate-based
meta-analytic methods have emerged and evolved in rigor and utility. Early
methods computed cross-study consensus, in a manner roughly comparable to
traditional (nonimaging) meta-analysis. Recent advances now compute
coactivation-based connectivity, connectivity-based functional parcellation, and 
complex network models powered from data sets representing tens of thousands of
subjects. Meta-analyses of human neuroimaging data in large-scale databases now
stand at the forefront of computational neurobiology.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170320 
PMCID: PMC4782802
PMID: 25032500  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:329-46. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013958.

Neuromodulation of circuits with variable parameters: single neurons and small
circuits reveal principles of state-dependent and robust neuromodulation.

Marder E(1), O'Leary T, Shruti S.

Author information: 
(1)Volen Center and Biology Department, Brandeis University, Waltham,
Massachusetts 02454; email: marder@brandeis.edu , toleary@brandeis.edu ,
sshruti@brandeis.edu.

Neuromodulation underlies many behavioral states and has been extensively studied
in small circuits. This has allowed the systematic exploration of how
neuromodulatory substances and the neurons that release them can influence
circuit function. The physiological state of a network and its level of activity 
can have profound effects on how the modulators act, a phenomenon known as state 
dependence. We provide insights from experiments and computational work that show
how state dependence can arise and the consequences it can have for cellular and 
circuit function. These observations pose a general unsolved question that is
relevant to all nervous systems: How is robust modulation achieved in spite of
animal-to-animal variability and degenerate, nonlinear mechanisms for the
production of neuronal and network activity?

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013958 
PMID: 25032499  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:307-27. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013931.

Motion-detecting circuits in flies: coming into view.

Silies M(1), Gohl DM, Clandinin TR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305;
email: msilies@stanford.edu , daryl.gohl@gmail.com , trc@stanford.edu.

Visual motion cues provide animals with critical information about their
environment and guide a diverse array of behaviors. The neural circuits that
carry out motion estimation provide a well-constrained model system for studying 
the logic of neural computation. Through a confluence of behavioral,
physiological, and anatomical experiments, taking advantage of the powerful
genetic tools available in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster, an outline of
the neural pathways that compute visual motion has emerged. Here we describe
these pathways, the evidence supporting them, and the challenges that remain in
understanding the circuits and computations that link sensory inputs to behavior.
Studies in flies and vertebrates have revealed a number of functional
similarities between motion-processing pathways in different animals, despite
profound differences in circuit anatomy and structure. The fact that different
circuit mechanisms are used to achieve convergent computational outcomes sheds
light on the evolution of the nervous system.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013931 
PMID: 25032498  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:289-306. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013924.

Basal ganglia circuits for reward value-guided behavior.

Hikosaka O(1), Kim HF, Yasuda M, Yamamoto S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensorimotor Research, National Eye Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892; email: oh@lsr.nei.nih.gov.

The basal ganglia are equipped with inhibitory and disinhibitory mechanisms that 
enable a subject to choose valuable objects and actions. Notably, a value can be 
determined flexibly by recent experience or stably by prolonged experience.
Recent studies have revealed that the head and tail of the caudate nucleus
selectively and differentially process flexible and stable values of visual
objects. These signals are sent to the superior colliculus through different
parts of the substantia nigra so that the animal looks preferentially at
high-valued objects, but in different manners. Thus, relying on short-term value 
memories, the caudate head circuit allows the subject's gaze to move expectantly 
to recently valued objects. Relying on long-term value memories, the caudate tail
circuit allows the subject's gaze to move automatically to previously valued
objects. The basal ganglia also contain an equivalent parallel mechanism for
action values. Such flexible-stable parallel mechanisms for object and action
values create a highly adaptable system for decision making.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013924 
PMCID: PMC4148825
PMID: 25032497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:221-42. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170354.

Neural tube defects.

Greene ND(1), Copp AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Newlife Birth Defects Research Center, Institute of Child Health, University
College London, WC1N 1EH, United Kingdom; email: n.greene@ucl.ac.uk.

Neural tube defects (NTDs), including spina bifida and anencephaly, are severe
birth defects of the central nervous system that originate during embryonic
development when the neural tube fails to close completely. Human NTDs are
multifactorial, with contributions from both genetic and environmental factors.
The genetic basis is not yet well understood, but several nongenetic risk factors
have been identified as have possibilities for prevention by maternal folic acid 
supplementation. Mechanisms underlying neural tube closure and NTDs may be
informed by experimental models, which have revealed numerous genes whose
abnormal function causes NTDs and have provided details of critical cellular and 
morphological events whose regulation is essential for closure. Such models also 
provide an opportunity to investigate potential risk factors and to develop novel
preventive therapies.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170354 
PMCID: PMC4486472
PMID: 25032496  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:205-20. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014017.

Neural coding of uncertainty and probability.

Ma WJ(1), Jazayeri M.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science and Department of Psychology, New York University,
New York, New York 10003; email: weijima@nyu.edu.

Organisms must act in the face of sensory, motor, and reward uncertainty stemming
from a pandemonium of stochasticity and missing information. In many tasks,
organisms can make better decisions if they have at their disposal a
representation of the uncertainty associated with task-relevant variables. We
formalize this problem using Bayesian decision theory and review recent
behavioral and neural evidence that the brain may use knowledge of uncertainty,
confidence, and probability.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014017 
PMID: 25032495  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:161-81. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014111.

Coupling mechanism and significance of the BOLD signal: a status report.

Hillman EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Biomedical Engineering and Radiology and the Kavli Institute
for Brain Science, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027; email:
elizabeth.hillman@columbia.edu.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) provides a unique view of the
working human mind. The blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal, detected in
fMRI, reflects changes in deoxyhemoglobin driven by localized changes in brain
blood flow and blood oxygenation, which are coupled to underlying neuronal
activity by a process termed neurovascular coupling. Over the past 10 years, a
range of cellular mechanisms, including astrocytes, pericytes, and interneurons, 
have been proposed to play a role in functional neurovascular coupling. However, 
the field remains conflicted over the relative importance of each process, while 
key spatiotemporal features of BOLD response remain unexplained. Here, we review 
current candidate neurovascular coupling mechanisms and propose that previously
overlooked involvement of the vascular endothelium may provide a more complete
picture of how blood flow is controlled in the brain. We also explore the
possibility and consequences of conditions in which neurovascular coupling may be
altered, including during postnatal development, pathological states, and aging, 
noting relevance to both stimulus-evoked and resting-state fMRI studies.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014111 
PMCID: PMC4147398
PMID: 25032494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:117-35. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013916.

Reassessing models of basal ganglia function and dysfunction.

Nelson AB(1), Kreitzer AC.

Author information: 
(1)The Gladstone Institutes, San Francisco, California 94158; email:
akreitzer@gladstone.ucsf.edu.

The basal ganglia are a series of interconnected subcortical nuclei. The function
and dysfunction of these nuclei have been studied intensively in motor control,
but more recently our knowledge of these functions has broadened to include
prominent roles in cognition and affective control. This review summarizes
historical models of basal ganglia function, as well as findings supporting or
conflicting with these models, while emphasizing recent work in animals and
humans directly testing the hypotheses generated by these models.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013916 
PMCID: PMC4416475
PMID: 25032493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:39-53. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014207.

The perirhinal cortex.

Suzuki WA(1), Naya Y.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, NY 10003; email:
wendy@cns.nyu.edu.

Anatomically, the perirhinal cortex sits at the boundary between the medial
temporal lobe and the ventral visual pathway. It has prominent interconnections
not only with both these systems, but also with a wide range of unimodal and
polymodal association areas. Consistent with these diverse projections,
neurophysiological studies reveal a multidimensional set of mnemonic signals that
include stimulus familiarity, within- and between-domain associations,
associative recall, and delay-based persistence. This wide range of perirhinal
memory signals not only includes signals that are largely unique to the
perirhinal cortex (i.e., object familiarity), consistent with dual-process
theories, but also includes a range of signals (i.e., associative flexibility and
recall) that are strongly associated with the hippocampus, consistent with
single-process theories. These neurophysiological findings have important
implications for bridging the gap between single-process and dual-process models 
of medial temporal lobe function.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014207 
PMID: 25032492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:17-38. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014100.

Translational control in synaptic plasticity and cognitive dysfunction.

Buffington SA(1), Huang W, Costa-Mattioli M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Memory and Brain Research Center, Baylor College
of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030; email: shelly.buffington@bcm.edu ,
wei.huang@bcm.edu , costamat@bcm.edu.

Activity-dependent changes in the strength of synaptic connections are
fundamental to the formation and maintenance of memory. The mechanisms underlying
persistent changes in synaptic strength in the hippocampus, specifically
long-term potentiation and depression, depend on new protein synthesis. Such
changes are thought to be orchestrated by engaging the signaling pathways that
regulate mRNA translation in neurons. In this review, we discuss the key
regulatory pathways that govern translational control in response to synaptic
activity and the mRNA populations that are specifically targeted by these
pathways. The critical contribution of regulatory control over new protein
synthesis to proper cognitive function is underscored by human disorders
associated with either silencing or mutation of genes encoding proteins that
directly regulate translation. In light of these clinical implications, we also
consider the therapeutic potential of targeting dysregulated translational
control to treat cognitive disorders of synaptic dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014100 
PMCID: PMC4721605
PMID: 25032491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:1-15. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013950.

Embodied cognition and mirror neurons: a critical assessment.

Caramazza A(1), Anzellotti S, Strnad L, Lingnau A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138; 
email: caramazz@fas.harvard.edu.

According to embodied cognition theories, higher cognitive abilities depend on
the reenactment of sensory and motor representations. In the first part of this
review, we critically analyze the central claims of embodied theories and argue
that the existing behavioral and neuroimaging data do not allow investigators to 
discriminate between embodied cognition and classical cognitive accounts, which
assume that conceptual representations are amodal and symbolic. In the second
part, we review the main claims and the core electrophysiological findings
typically cited in support of the mirror neuron theory of action understanding,
one of the most influential examples of embodied cognition theories. In the final
part, we analyze the claim that mirror neurons subserve action understanding by
mapping visual representations of observed actions on motor representations,
trying to clarify in what sense the representations carried by these neurons can 
be claimed motor.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013950 
PMID: 25032490  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:387-407. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014048.
Epub 2014 Jun 16.

Chemogenetic tools to interrogate brain functions.

Sternson SM(1), Roth BL.

Author information: 
(1)Janelia Farm Research Campus, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Ashburn,
Virginia 20147; email: sternsons@janelia.hhmi.org.

Elucidating the roles of neuronal cell types for physiology and behavior is
essential for understanding brain functions. Perturbation of neuron electrical
activity can be used to probe the causal relationship between neuronal cell types
and behavior. New genetically encoded neuron perturbation tools have been
developed for remotely controlling neuron function using small molecules that
activate engineered receptors that can be targeted to cell types using genetic
methods. Here we describe recent progress for approaches using genetically
engineered receptors that selectively interact with small molecules. Called
"chemogenetics," receptors with diverse cellular functions have been developed
that facilitate the selective pharmacological control over a diverse range of
cell-signaling processes, including electrical activity, for molecularly defined 
cell types. These tools have revealed remarkably specific behavioral
physiological influences for molecularly defined cell types that are often
intermingled with populations having different or even opposite functions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014048 
PMID: 25002280  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:457-78. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170339. Epub
2014 Jun 23.

Measuring consciousness in severely damaged brains.

Gosseries O(1), Di H, Laureys S, Boly M.

Author information: 
(1)Coma Science Group, Cyclotron Research Center and Neurology Department,
University of Liege, and University Hospital of Liege, 4000 Liege, Belgium;
email: ogosseries@ulg.ac.be , dihaibo@yahoo.com.cn , steven.laureys@ulg.ac.be ,
mboly@ulg.ac.be.

Significant advances have been made in the behavioral assessment and clinical
management of disorders of consciousness (DOC). In addition, functional
neuroimaging paradigms are now available to help assess consciousness levels in
this challenging patient population. The success of these neuroimaging approaches
as diagnostic markers is, however, intrinsically linked to understanding the
relationships between consciousness and the brain. In this context, a combined
theoretical approach to neuroimaging studies is needed. The promise of such
theoretically based markers is illustrated by recent findings that used a
perturbational approach to assess the levels of consciousness. Further research
on the contents of consciousness in DOC is also needed.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170339 
PMID: 25002279  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:479-501. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170328.
Epub 2014 Jun 23.

Generating human neurons in vitro and using them to understand neuropsychiatric
disease.

Paşca SP(1), Panagiotakos G, Dolmetsch RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School
of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305; email: spasca@stanford.edu.

Recent advances in cell reprogramming enable investigators to generate
pluripotent stem cells from somatic cells. These induced pluripotent cells can
subsequently be differentiated into any cell type, making it possible for the
first time to obtain functional human neurons in the lab from control subjects
and patients with psychiatric disorders. In this review, we survey the progress
made in generating various neuronal subtypes in vitro, with special emphasis on
the characterization of these neurons and the identification of unique features
of human brain development in a dish. We also discuss efforts to uncover neuronal
phenotypes from patients with psychiatric disease and prospects for the use of
this platform for drug development.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170328 
PMID: 25002278  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:435-56. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170325. Epub
2014 Jun 25.

Decoding neural representational spaces using multivariate pattern analysis.

Haxby JV(1), Connolly AC, Guntupalli JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Center for Cognitive
Neuroscience, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire 03755; email:
james.v.haxby@dartmouth.edu , andrew.c.connolly@dartmouth.edu ,
swaroopgj@gmail.com.

A major challenge for systems neuroscience is to break the neural code.
Computational algorithms for encoding information into neural activity and
extracting information from measured activity afford understanding of how
percepts, memories, thought, and knowledge are represented in patterns of brain
activity. The past decade and a half has seen significant advances in the
development of methods for decoding human neural activity, such as multivariate
pattern classification, representational similarity analysis, hyperalignment, and
stimulus-model-based encoding and decoding. This article reviews these advances
and integrates neural decoding methods into a common framework organized around
the concept of high-dimensional representational spaces.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170325 
PMID: 25002277  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:263-87. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014119. Epub
2014 May 29.

Emotion and decision making: multiple modulatory neural circuits.

Phelps EA(1), Lempert KM, Sokol-Hessner P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology.

Although the prevalent view of emotion and decision making is derived from the
notion that there are dual systems of emotion and reason, a modulatory
relationship more accurately reflects the current research in affective
neuroscience and neuroeconomics. Studies show two potential mechanisms for
affect's modulation of the computation of subjective value and decisions.
Incidental affective states may carry over to the assessment of subjective value 
and the decision, and emotional reactions to the choice may be incorporated into 
the value calculation. In addition, this modulatory relationship is reciprocal:
Changing emotion can change choices. This research suggests that the neural
mechanisms mediating the relation between affect and choice vary depending on
which affective component is engaged and which decision variables are assessed.
We suggest that a detailed and nuanced understanding of emotion and decision
making requires characterizing the multiple modulatory neural circuits underlying
the different means by which emotion and affect can influence choices.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014119 
PMID: 24905597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:243-62. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014134. Epub
2014 May 29.

Functions and dysfunctions of adult hippocampal neurogenesis.

Christian KM(1), Song H, Ming GL.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cell Engineering.

Adult neurogenesis, a developmental process of generating functionally integrated
neurons, occurs throughout life in the hippocampus of the mammalian brain and
showcases the highly plastic nature of the mature central nervous system.
Significant progress has been made in recent years to decipher how adult
neurogenesis contributes to brain functions. Here we review recent findings that 
inform our understanding of adult hippocampal neurogenesis processes and special 
properties of adult-born neurons. We further discuss potential roles of
adult-born neurons at the circuitry and behavioral levels in cognitive and
affective functions and how their dysfunction may contribute to various brain
disorders. We end by considering a general model proposing that adult
neurogenesis is not a cell-replacement mechanism, but instead maintains a plastic
hippocampal neuronal circuit via the continuous addition of immature, new neurons
with unique properties and structural plasticity of mature neurons induced by
new-neuron integration.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014134 
PMID: 24905596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:347-62. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013847. Epub
2014 Jun 2.

The neurobiology of language beyond single words.

Hagoort P(1), Indefrey P.

Author information: 
(1)Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, 6525 XD Nijmegen, The Netherlands;
email: peter.hagoort@donders.ru.nl.

A hallmark of human language is that we combine lexical building blocks retrieved
from memory in endless new ways. This combinatorial aspect of language is
referred to as unification. Here we focus on the neurobiological infrastructure
for syntactic and semantic unification. Unification is characterized by a
high-speed temporal profile including both prediction and integration of
retrieved lexical elements. A meta-analysis of numerous neuroimaging studies
reveals a clear dorsal/ventral gradient in both left inferior frontal cortex and 
left posterior temporal cortex, with dorsal foci for syntactic processing and
ventral foci for semantic processing. In addition to core areas for unification, 
further networks need to be recruited to realize language-driven communication to
its full extent. One example is the theory of mind network, which allows
listeners and readers to infer the intended message (speaker meaning) from the
coded meaning of the linguistic utterance. This indicates that sensorimotor
simulation cannot handle all of language processing.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013847 
PMID: 24905595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:363-85. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013941. Epub
2014 Jun 2.

Coding and transformations in the olfactory system.

Uchida N(1), Poo C, Haddad R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Center for Brain Science,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138; email:
uchida@mcb.harvard.edu.

How is sensory information represented in the brain? A long-standing debate in
neural coding is whether and how timing of spikes conveys information to
downstream neurons. Although we know that neurons in the olfactory bulb (OB)
exhibit rich temporal dynamics, the functional relevance of temporal coding
remains hotly debated. Recent recording experiments in awake behaving animals
have elucidated highly organized temporal structures of activity in the OB. In
addition, the analysis of neural circuits in the piriform cortex (PC)
demonstrated the importance of not only OB afferent inputs but also intrinsic PC 
neural circuits in shaping odor responses. Furthermore, new experiments involving
stimulation of the OB with specific temporal patterns allowed for testing the
relevance of temporal codes. Together, these studies suggest that the relative
timing of neuronal activity in the OB conveys odor information and that neural
circuits in the PC possess various mechanisms to decode temporal patterns of OB
input.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013941 
PMID: 24905594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


61. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:137-59. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014317. Epub
2014 May 5.

A mitocentric view of Parkinson's disease.

Haelterman NA(1), Yoon WH, Sandoval H, Jaiswal M, Shulman JM, Bellen HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Developmental Biology.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease, yet the
underlying causative molecular mechanisms are ill defined. Numerous observations 
based on drug studies and mutations in genes that cause PD point to a complex set
of rather subtle mitochondrial defects that may be causative. Indeed, intensive
investigation of these genes in model organisms has revealed roles in the
electron transport chain, mitochondrial protein homeostasis, mitophagy, and the
fusion and fission of mitochondria. Here, we attempt to synthesize results from
experimental studies in diverse systems to define the precise function of these
PD genes, as well as their interplay with other genes that affect mitochondrial
function. We propose that subtle mitochondrial defects in combination with other 
insults trigger the onset and progression of disease, in both familial and
idiopathic PD.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014317 
PMCID: PMC4659514
PMID: 24821430  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:183-203. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170344.
Epub 2014 May 9.

Cortical control of whisker movement.

Petersen CC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Processing, Brain Mind Institute, Faculty of Life
Sciences, École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), CH-1015 Lausanne,
Switzerland; email: carl.petersen@epfl.ch.

Facial muscles drive whisker movements, which are important for active tactile
sensory perception in mice and rats. These whisker muscles are innervated by
cholinergic motor neurons located in the lateral facial nucleus. The whisker
motor neurons receive synaptic inputs from premotor neurons, which are located
within the brain stem, the midbrain, and the neocortex. Complex, distributed
neural circuits therefore regulate whisker movement during behavior. This review 
focuses specifically on cortical whisker motor control. The whisker primary motor
cortex (M1) strongly innervates brain stem reticular nuclei containing whisker
premotor neurons, which might form a central pattern generator for rhythmic
whisker protraction. In a parallel analogous pathway, the whisker primary
somatosensory cortex (S1) strongly projects to the brain stem spinal trigeminal
interpolaris nucleus, which contains whisker premotor neurons innervating muscles
for whisker retraction. These anatomical pathways may play important functional
roles, since stimulation of M1 drives exploratory rhythmic whisking, whereas
stimulation of S1 drives whisker retraction.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170344 
PMID: 24821429  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:55-78. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014149. Epub 
2014 Apr 21.

Autophagy and its normal and pathogenic states in the brain.

Yamamoto A(1), Yue Z.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurology, Pathology, and Cell Biology, College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032; email:
ay46@cumc.columbia.edu.

Autophagy is a conserved catabolic process that delivers the cytosol and
cytosolic constituents to the lysosome. Its fundamental role is to maintain
cellular homeostasis and to protect cells from varying insults, including
misfolded proteins and damaged organelles. Beyond these roles, the highly
specialized cells of the brain have further adapted autophagic pathways to suit
their distinct needs. In this review, we briefly summarize our current
understanding of the different forms of autophagy and then offer a closer look at
how these pathways impact neuronal and glial functions. The emerging evidence
indicates that not only are autophagy pathways essential for neural health, but
they have a direct impact on developmental and neurodegenerative processes. Taken
together, as we unravel the complex roles autophagy pathways play, we will gain
the necessary insight to modify these pathways to protect the human brain and
treat neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014149 
PMID: 24821313  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:79-100. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014300. Epub
2014 Apr 21.

Apolipoprotein E in Alzheimer's disease: an update.

Yu JT(1), Tan L, Hardy J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Qingdao Municipal Hospital, School of Medicine,
Qingdao University, Qingdao 266071, China; email: yu-jintai@163.com ,
dr.tanlan@163.com.

The vast majority of Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases are late onset (LOAD), which 
is genetically complex with heritability estimates up to 80%. Apolipoprotein E
(APOE) has been irrefutably recognized as the major genetic risk factor, with
semidominant inheritance, for LOAD. Although the mechanisms that underlie the
pathogenic nature of APOE in AD are still not completely understood, emerging
data suggest that APOE contributes to AD pathogenesis through both amyloid-β
(Aβ)-dependent and Aβ-independent pathways. Given the central role for APOE in
the modulation of AD pathogenesis, many therapeutic strategies have emerged,
including converting APOE conformation, regulating APOE expression, mimicking
APOE peptides, blocking the APOE/Aβ interaction, modulating APOE lipidation
state, and gene therapy. Accumulating evidence also suggests the utility of APOE 
genotyping in AD diagnosis, risk assessment, prevention, and treatment response.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-014300 
PMID: 24821312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2014;37:101-16. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013855. Epub
2014 Apr 24.

Function and dysfunction of hypocretin/orexin: an energetics point of view.

Gao XB(1), Horvath T.

Author information: 
(1)Yale Program in Integrative Cell Signaling and Neurobiology of Metabolism,
Section of Comparative Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06520; email: xiao-bing.gao@yale.edu , tamas.horvath@yale.edu.

The basic elements of animal behavior that are critical to survival include
energy, arousal, and motivation: Energy intake and expenditure are fundamental to
all organisms for the performance of any type of function; according to the
Yerkes-Dodson law, an optimal level of arousal is required for animals to perform
normal functions; and motivation is critical to goal-oriented behaviors in higher
animals. The brain is the primary organ that controls these elements and, through
evolution, has developed specialized structures to accomplish this task. The
orexin/hypocretin system in the perifornical/lateral hypothalamus, which was
discovered 15 years ago, is one such specialized area. This review summarizes a
fast-growing body of evidence discerning how the orexin/hypocretin system
integrates internal and external cues to regulate energy intake that can then be 
used to generate sufficient arousal for animals to perform innate and
goal-oriented behaviors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-071013-013855 
PMID: 24821311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:547-68. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150414.

The molecular basis of self-avoidance.

Zipursky SL(1), Grueber WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, David
Geffen School of Medicine, University of California-Los Angeles, CA 90095-1662,
USA. lzipursky@mednet.ucla.edu

Self-avoidance, the tendency of neurites of the same cell to selectively avoid
each other, is a property of both vertebrate and invertebrate neurons. In
Drosophila, self-avoidance is mediated by a large family of cell recognition
molecules of the immunoglobulin superfamily encoded, via alternative splicing, by
the Dscam1 locus. Dscam1 promotes self-avoidance in dendrites, axons, and
prospective postsynaptic elements. Expression analysis suggests that each neuron 
expresses a unique combination of isoforms. Identical isoforms on sister neurites
exhibit isoform-specific homophilic recognition and elicit repulsion between
processes, thereby promoting self-avoidance. Although any isoform can promote
self-avoidance, thousands are necessary to ensure that neurites readily
discriminate between self and nonself. Recent studies indicate that a large
family of cadherins in the mouse, i.e., the clustered protocadherins, functions
in an analogous fashion to promote self-avoidance. These studies argue for the
evolution of a common molecular strategy for self-avoidance.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150414 
PMID: 23841842  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:451-66. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150439.

Prefrontal contributions to visual selective attention.

Squire RF(1), Noudoost B, Schafer RJ, Moore T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.

The faculty of attention endows us with the capacity to process important sensory
information selectively while disregarding information that is potentially
distracting. Much of our understanding of the neural circuitry underlying this
fundamental cognitive function comes from neurophysiological studies within the
visual modality. Past evidence suggests that a principal function of the
prefrontal cortex (PFC) is selective attention and that this function involves
the modulation of sensory signals within posterior cortices. In this review, we
discuss recent progress in identifying the specific prefrontal circuits
controlling visual attention and its neural correlates within the primate visual 
system. In addition, we examine the persisting challenge of precisely defining
how behavior should be affected when attentional function is lost.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150439 
PMID: 23841841  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:271-94. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170433.

Muscarinic signaling in the brain.

Thiele A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Henry Wellcome Building, Newcastle University,
Newcastle upon Tyne, United Kingdom. alex.thiele@ncl.ac.uk

Muscarinic signaling affects attention, action selection, learning, and memory
through multiple signaling cascades, which act at different timescales and which 
alter ion channels in cell type-specific manners. The effects of muscarinic
signaling differ between cortical layers and between brain areas. Muscarinic
signaling adds flexibility to the processing mode of neuronal networks, thereby
supporting processing according to task demands. This review outlines possible
scenarios to describe how it contributes to cellular mechanisms of attention and 
how it affects channeling of information in different neuronal circuits.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170433 
PMID: 23841840  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:217-41. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150533.

Early olfactory processing in Drosophila: mechanisms and principles.

Wilson RI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
rachel_wilson@hms.harvard.edu

In the olfactory system of Drosophila melanogaster, it is relatively
straightforward to target in vivo measurements of neural activity to specific
processing channels. This, together with the numerical simplicity of the
Drosophila olfactory system, has produced rapid gains in our understanding of
Drosophila olfaction. This review summarizes the neurophysiology of the first two
layers of this system: the peripheral olfactory receptor neurons and their
postsynaptic targets in the antennal lobe. We now understand in some detail the
cellular and synaptic mechanisms that shape odor representations in these
neurons. Together, these mechanisms imply that interesting neural adaptations to 
environmental statistics have occurred. These mechanisms also place some
fundamental constraints on early sensory processing that pose challenges for
higher brain regions. These findings suggest some general principles with broad
relevance to early sensory processing in other modalities.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150533 
PMCID: PMC3933953
PMID: 23841839  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:103-20. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170253.

Computational identification of receptive fields.

Sharpee TO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Computational Neurobiology Laboratories, Salk Institute for Biological
Studies, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. sharpee@salk.edu

Natural stimuli elicit robust responses of neurons throughout sensory pathways,
and therefore their use provides unique opportunities for understanding sensory
coding. This review describes statistical methods that can be used to
characterize neural feature selectivity, focusing on the case of natural stimuli.
First, we discuss how such classic methods as reverse correlation/spike-triggered
average and spike-triggered covariance can be generalized for use with natural
stimuli to find the multiple relevant stimulus features that affect the responses
of a given neuron. Second, ways to characterize neural feature selectivity while 
assuming that the neural responses exhibit a certain type of invariance, such as 
position invariance for visual neurons, are discussed. Finally, we discuss
methods that do not require one to make an assumption of invariance and instead
can determine the type of invariance by analyzing relationships between the
multiple stimulus features that affect the neural responses.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170253 
PMCID: PMC3760488
PMID: 23841838  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:1-24. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150343.

Active properties of neocortical pyramidal neuron dendrites.

Major G(1), Larkum ME, Schiller J.

Author information: 
(1)School of Biosciences, Cardiff University, Cardiff, United Kingdom.
majorg@cardiff.ac.uk

Dendrites are the main recipients of synaptic inputs and are important sites that
determine neurons' input-output functions. This review focuses on thin
neocortical dendrites, which receive the vast majority of synaptic inputs in
cortex but also have specialized electrogenic properties. We present a simplified
working-model biophysical scheme of pyramidal neurons that attempts to capture
the essence of their dendritic function, including the ability to behave under
plausible conditions as dynamic computational subunits. We emphasize the
electrogenic capabilities of NMDA receptors (NMDARs) because these
transmitter-gated channels seem to provide the major nonlinear depolarizing drive
in thin dendrites, even allowing full-blown NMDA spikes. We show how apparent
discrepancies in experimental findings can be reconciled and discuss the current 
status of dendritic spikes in vivo; a dominant NMDAR contribution would indicate 
that the input-output relations of thin dendrites are dynamically set by network 
activity and cannot be fully predicted by purely reductionist approaches.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150343 
PMID: 23841837  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:489-517. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-152826.

Translating birdsong: songbirds as a model for basic and applied medical
research.

Brainard MS(1), Doupe AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Integrative Neuroscience and Departments of Physiology and
Psychiatry, University of California-San Francisco, CA 94143-0444, USA.
msb@phy.ucsf.edu

Songbirds, long of interest to basic neuroscience, have great potential as a
model system for translational neuroscience. Songbirds learn their complex vocal 
behavior in a manner that exemplifies general processes of perceptual and motor
skill learning and, more specifically, resembles human speech learning. Song is
subserved by circuitry that is specialized for vocal learning and production but 
that has strong similarities to mammalian brain pathways. The combination of
highly quantifiable behavior and discrete neural substrates facilitates
understanding links between brain and behavior, both in normal states and in
disease. Here we highlight (a) behavioral and mechanistic parallels between
birdsong and aspects of speech and social communication, including insights into 
mirror neurons, the function of auditory feedback, and genes underlying social
communication disorders, and (b) contributions of songbirds to understanding
cortical-basal ganglia circuit function and dysfunction, including the
possibility of harnessing adult neurogenesis for brain repair.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-152826 
PMCID: PMC4130661
PMID: 23750515  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:519-46. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170412.

Transient receptor potential channels and mechanosensation.

Eijkelkamp N(1), Quick K, Wood JN.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroimmunology and Developmental Origins of Disease, University
Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands. N.Eijkelkamp@umcutrecht.nl

Transient receptor potential (TRP) channels act as sensors for a range of stimuli
as diverse as light, sound, touch, pheromones, and tissue damage. Their role in
mechanosensation in the animal kingdom, identified by gene ablation studies, has 
raised questions about whether they are directly mechanically gated, whether they
act alone or in concert with other channels to transduce mechanical stimuli, and 
their relative importance in various functions and disease states in humans. The 
ability of these channels to form heteromultimers and interact with other ion
channels underlies a range of cell-specific functions in different cell types.
Here we overview recent advances in this rapidly expanding field, focusing on
somatosensation, hearing, the cardiovascular system, and interactions between TRP
channels and other proteins involved in mechanoelectrical signaling.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170412 
PMID: 23750514  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:383-402. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150504. Epub 2013 May 29.

Neuronal computations in the olfactory system of zebrafish.

Friedrich RW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, 4058 Basel, Switzerland.
Rainer.Friedrich@fmi.ch

The main olfactory system encodes information about molecules in a combinatorial 
fashion by distributed spatiotemporal activity patterns. As activity propagates
from sensory neurons to the olfactory bulb and to higher brain areas, odor
information is processed by multiple transformations of these activity patterns. 
This review discusses neuronal computations associated with such transformations 
in the olfactory system of zebrafish, a small vertebrate that offers advantages
for the quantitative analysis and manipulation of neuronal activity in the intact
brain. The review focuses on pattern decorrelation in the olfactory bulb and on
the readout of multiplexed sensory representations in the telencephalic area Dp, 
the homolog of the olfactory cortex. These computations are difficult to study in
larger species and may provide insights into general information-processing
strategies in the brain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150504 
PMID: 23725002  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:337-59. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150509. Epub 2013 May 29.

Cortical control of arm movements: a dynamical systems perspective.

Shenoy KV(1), Sahani M, Churchland MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering, Stanford Institute for Neuro-Innovation 
and TranslationalNeuroscience, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA.
shenoy@stanford.edu

Our ability to move is central to everyday life. Investigating the neural control
of movement in general, and the cortical control of volitional arm movements in
particular, has been a major research focus in recent decades. Studies have
involved primarily either attempts to account for single-neuron responses in
terms of tuning for movement parameters or attempts to decode movement parameters
from populations of tuned neurons. Even though this focus on encoding and
decoding has led to many seminal advances, it has not produced an agreed-upon
conceptual framework. Interest in understanding the underlying neural dynamics
has recently increased, leading to questions such as how does the current
population response determine the future population response, and to what
purpose? We review how a dynamical systems perspective may help us understand why
neural activity evolves the way it does, how neural activity relates to movement 
parameters, and how a unified conceptual framework may result.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150509 
PMID: 23725001  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:313-36. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170349. Epub 2013 May 29.

Neural basis of the perception and estimation of time.

Merchant H(1), Harrington DL, Meck WH.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Neurobiología, UNAM, Campus Juriquilla, México.
hugomerchant@unam.mx

Understanding how sensory and motor processes are temporally integrated to
control behavior in the hundredths of milliseconds-to-minutes range is a
fascinating problem given that the basic electrophysiological properties of
neurons operate on a millisecond timescale. Single-unit recording studies in
monkeys have identified localized timing circuits, whereas neuropsychological
studies of humans who have damage to the basal ganglia have indicated that core
structures, such as the cortico-thalamic-basal ganglia circuit, play an important
role in timing and time perception. Taken together, these data suggest that a
core timing mechanism interacts with context-dependent areas. This idea of a
temporal hub with a distributed network is used to investigate the abstract
properties of interval tuning as well as temporal illusions and intersensory
timing. We conclude by proposing that the interconnections built into this core
timing mechanism are designed to provide a form of degeneracy as protection
against injury, disease, or age-related decline.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170349 
PMID: 23725000  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:361-81. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170309. Epub 2013 May 29.

The genetics of hair cell development and regeneration.

Groves AK(1), Zhang KD, Fekete DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030,
USA. akgroves@bcm.edu

Sensory hair cells are exquisitely sensitive vertebrate mechanoreceptors that
mediate the senses of hearing and balance. Understanding the factors that
regulate the development of these cells is important, not only to increase our
understanding of ear development and its functional physiology but also to shed
light on how these cells may be replaced therapeutically. In this review, we
describe the signals and molecular mechanisms that initiate hair cell development
in vertebrates, with particular emphasis on the transcription factor Atoh1, which
is both necessary and sufficient for hair cell development. We then discuss
recent findings on how microRNAs may modulate the formation and maturation of
hair cells. Last, we review recent work on how hair cells are regenerated in many
vertebrate groups and the factors that conspire to prevent this regeneration in
mammals.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170309 
PMCID: PMC3773239
PMID: 23724999  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:295-312. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170330. Epub 2013 May 29.

Mechanisms and functions of theta rhythms.

Colgin LL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Learning and Memory, The University of Texas, Austin, TX
78712-0805, USA. colgin@mail.clm.utexas.edu

The theta rhythm is one of the largest and most sinusoidal activity patterns in
the brain. Here I survey progress in the field of theta rhythms research. I
present arguments supporting the hypothesis that theta rhythms emerge owing to
intrinsic cellular properties yet can be entrained by several theta oscillators
throughout the brain. I review behavioral correlates of theta rhythms and
consider how these correlates inform our understanding of theta rhythms'
functions. I discuss recent work suggesting that one function of theta is to
package related information within individual theta cycles for more efficient
spatial memory processing. Studies examining the role of theta phase precession
in spatial memory, particularly sequence retrieval, are also summarized.
Additionally, I discuss how interregional coupling of theta rhythms facilitates
communication across brain regions. Finally, I conclude by summarizing how theta 
rhythms may support cognitive operations in the brain, including learning.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170330 
PMID: 23724998  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:429-49. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150455. Epub 2013 May 29.

Electrical compartmentalization in dendritic spines.

Yuste R(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Biological Sciences and Neuroscience, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, and Kavli Institute for Brain Science, Columbia University, New York, 
NY 10027, USA. rafaelyuste@columbia.edu

Most excitatory inputs in the CNS contact dendritic spines, avoiding dendritic
shafts, so spines must play a key role for neurons. Recent data suggest that, in 
addition to enhancing connectivity and isolating synaptic biochemistry, spines
can behave as electrical compartments independent from their parent dendrites. It
is becoming clear that, although spines experience voltages similar to those of
dendrites during action potentials (APs), spines must sustain higher
depolarizations than do dendritic shafts during excitatory postsynaptic
potentials (EPSPs). Synaptic potentials are likely amplified at the spine head
and then reduced as they invade the dendrite through the spine neck. These
electrical changes, probably due to a combination of passive and active
mechanisms, may prevent the saturation of dendrites by the joint activation of
many inputs, influence dendritic integration, and contribute to rapid synaptic
plasticity. The electrical properties of spines could enable neural circuits to
harness a high connectivity, implementing a "synaptic democracy," where each
input can be individually integrated, tallied, and modified in order to generate 
emergent functional states.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150455 
PMID: 23724997  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:403-28. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170315. Epub 2013 May 29.

Transformation of visual signals by inhibitory interneurons in retinal circuits.

Jadzinsky PD(1), Baccus SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA 94305, USA. jadz@stanford.edu

One of the largest mysteries of the brain lies in understanding how higher-level 
computations are implemented by lower-level operations in neurons and synapses.
In particular, in many brain regions inhibitory interneurons represent a diverse 
class of cells, the individual functional roles of which are unknown. We discuss 
here how the operations of inhibitory interneurons influence the behavior of a
circuit, focusing on recent results in the vertebrate retina. A key role in this 
understanding is played by a common representation of the visual stimulus that
can be applied at different stages. By considering how this stimulus
representation changes at each location in the circuit, we can understand how
neuron-level operations such as thresholds and inhibition yield circuit-level
computations such as how stimulus selectivity and gain are controlled by local
and peripheral visual stimuli.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170315 
PMID: 23724996  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:467-88. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170304. Epub 2013 May 31.

Gene therapy for blindness.

Sahel JA(1), Roska B.

Author information: 
(1)INSERM UMR_S 968, UPMC, University of Paris 06, Institut de la Vision, Paris, 
France. j.sahel@gmail.com

Sight-restoring therapy for the visually impaired and blind is a major unmet
medical need. Ocular gene therapy is a rational choice for restoring vision or
preventing the loss of vision because most blinding diseases originate in
cellular components of the eye, a compartment that is optimally suited for the
delivery of genes, and many of these diseases have a genetic origin or genetic
component. In recent years we have witnessed major advances in the field of
ocular gene therapy, and proof-of-concept studies are under way to evaluate the
safety and efficacy of human gene therapies. Here we discuss the concepts and
recent advances in gene therapy in the retina. Our review discusses traditional
approaches such as gene replacement and neuroprotection and also new avenues such
as optogenetic therapies. We conjecture that advances in gene therapy in the
retina will pave the way for gene therapies in other parts of the brain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170304 
PMID: 23724995  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:243-70. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062912-114322. Epub 2013 May 20.

RNA protein interaction in neurons.

Darnell RB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Neuro-Oncology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The
Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10065, USA. darnelr@rockefeller.edu

Neurons have their own systems for regulating RNA. Several multigene families
encode RNA binding proteins (RNABPs) that are uniquely expressed in neurons,
including the well-known neuron-specific markers ELAV and NeuN and the disease
antigen NOVA. New technologies have emerged in recent years to assess the
function of these proteins in vivo, and the answers are yielding insights into
how and why neurons may regulate RNA in special ways-to increase cellular
complexity, to localize messenger RNA (mRNA) spatially, and to regulate their
expression in response to synaptic stimuli. The functions of such restricted
neuronal proteins are likely to be complemented by more widely expressed RNABPs
that may themselves have developed specialized functions in neurons, including
Argonaute/microRNAs (miRNAs). Here we review what is known about such RNABPs and 
explore the potential biologic and neurologic significance of neuronal RNA
regulatory systems.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062912-114322 
PMCID: PMC3889695
PMID: 23701460  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:139-64. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170313. Epub 2013 May 15.

From atomic structures to neuronal functions of g protein-coupled receptors.

Palczewski K(1), Orban T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology, School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve
University, Cleveland, Ohio 44106-4965, USA. kxp65@case.edu

G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are essential mediators of signal
transduction, neurotransmission, ion channel regulation, and other cellular
events. GPCRs are activated by diverse stimuli, including light, enzymatic
processing of their N-termini, and binding of proteins, peptides, or small
molecules such as neurotransmitters. GPCR dysfunction caused by receptor
mutations and environmental challenges contributes to many neurological diseases.
Moreover, modern genetic technology has helped identify a rich array of mono- and
multigenic defects in humans and animal models that connect such receptor
dysfunction with disease affecting neuronal function. The visual system is
especially suited to investigate GPCR structure and function because advanced
imaging techniques permit structural studies of photoreceptor neurons at both
macro and molecular levels that, together with biochemical and physiological
assessment in animal models, provide a more complete understanding of GPCR
signaling.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170313 
PMCID: PMC4594856
PMID: 23682660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:165-82. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170249. Epub 2013 May 15.

Superior colliculus and visual spatial attention.

Krauzlis RJ(1), Lovejoy LP, Zénon A.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensorimotor Research, National Eye Institute, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. richard.krauzlis@nih.gov

The superior colliculus (SC) has long been known to be part of the network of
brain areas involved in spatial attention, but recent findings have dramatically 
refined our understanding of its functional role. The SC both implements the
motor consequences of attention and plays a crucial role in the process of target
selection that precedes movement. Moreover, even in the absence of overt
orienting movements, SC activity is related to shifts of covert attention and is 
necessary for the normal control of spatial attention during perceptual
judgments. The neuronal circuits that link the SC to spatial attention may
include attention-related areas of the cerebral cortex, but recent results show
that the SC's contribution involves mechanisms that operate independently of the 
established signatures of attention in visual cortex. These findings raise new
issues and suggest novel possibilities for understanding the brain mechanisms
that enable spatial attention.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170249 
PMCID: PMC3820016
PMID: 23682659  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:183-215. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170307. Epub 2013 May 17.

Genetic approaches to neural circuits in the mouse.

Huang ZJ(1), Zeng H.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, NY 11724, USA.
huangj@cshl.edu

To understand the organization and assembly of mammalian brain circuits, we need 
a comprehensive tool set that can address the challenges of cellular diversity,
spatial complexity at synapse resolution, dynamic complexity of circuit
operations, and multifaceted developmental processes rooted in the genome.
Complementary to physics- and chemistry-based methods, genetic tools tap into
intrinsic cellular and developmental mechanisms. Thus, they have the potential to
achieve appropriate spatiotemporal resolution and the cellular-molecular
specificity necessary for observing and probing the makings and inner workings of
neurons and neuronal circuits. Furthermore, genetic analysis will be key to
unraveling the intricate link from genes to circuits to systems, in part through 
systematic targeting and tracking of individual cellular components of neural
circuits. Here we review recent progress in genetic tool development and advances
in genetic analysis of neural circuits in the mouse. We also discuss future
directions and implications for understanding brain disorders.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170307 
PMID: 23682658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:25-50. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170300.
Epub 2013 Apr 29.

Episodic neurologic disorders: syndromes, genes, and mechanisms.

Russell JF(1), Fu YH, Ptáček LJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, School of Medicine, 
University of California-San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. jonathan.russell@ucsf.edu

Many neurologic diseases cause discrete episodic impairment in contrast with
progressive deterioration. The symptoms of these episodic disorders exhibit
striking variety. Herein we review what is known of the phenotypes, genetics, and
pathophysiology of episodic neurologic disorders. Of these, most are genetically 
complex, with unknown or polygenic inheritance. In contrast, a fascinating
panoply of episodic disorders exhibit Mendelian inheritance. We classify episodic
Mendelian disorders according to the primary neuroanatomical location affected:
skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, neuromuscular junction, peripheral nerve, or
central nervous system (CNS). Most known Mendelian mutations alter genes that
encode membrane-bound ion channels. These mutations cause ion channel
dysfunction, which ultimately leads to altered membrane excitability as
manifested by episodic disease. Other Mendelian disease genes encode proteins
essential for ion channel trafficking or stability. These observations have
cemented the channelopathy paradigm, in which episodic disorders are
conceptualized as disorders of ion channels. However, we expand on this paradigm 
to propose that dysfunction at the synaptic and neuronal circuit levels may
underlie some episodic neurologic entities.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170300 
PMID: 23642134  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:121-38. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170256. Epub 2013 Apr 29.

The evolution of Drosophila melanogaster as a model for alcohol research.

Devineni AV(1), Heberlein U.

Author information: 
(1)Program in Neuroscience and Department of Anatomy, University of
California-San Francisco, CA 94158, USA. ad3030@columbia.edu

Animal models have been widely used to gain insight into the mechanisms
underlying the acute and long-term effects of alcohol exposure. The fruit fly
Drosophila melanogaster encounters ethanol in its natural habitat and possesses
many adaptations that allow it to survive and thrive in ethanol-rich
environments. Several assays to study ethanol-related behaviors in flies, ranging
from acute intoxication to self-administration and reward, have been developed in
the past 20 years. These assays have provided the basis for studying the
physiological and behavioral effects of ethanol and for identifying genes
mediating these effects. In this review we describe the ecological relationship
between flies and ethanol, the effects of ethanol on fly development and
behavior, the use of flies as a model for alcohol addiction, and the interaction 
between ethanol and social behavior. We discuss these advances in the context of 
their utility to help decipher the mechanisms underlying the diverse effects of
ethanol, including those that mediate ethanol dependence and addiction in humans.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170256 
PMID: 23642133  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:51-77. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170341.
Epub 2013 Apr 29.

Developmental mechanisms of topographic map formation and alignment.

Cang J(1), Feldheim DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL 60208, USA. 
cang@northwestern.edu

Brain connections are organized into topographic maps that are precisely aligned 
both within and across modalities. This alignment facilitates coherent
integration of different categories of sensory inputs and allows for proper
sensorimotor transformations. Topographic maps are established and aligned by
multistep processes during development, including interactions of molecular
guidance cues expressed in gradients; spontaneous activity-dependent axonal and
dendritic remodeling; and sensory-evoked plasticity driven by experience. By
focusing on the superior colliculus, a major site of topographic map alignment
for different sensory modalities, this review summarizes current understanding of
topographic map development in the mammalian visual system and highlights recent 
advances in map alignment studies. A major goal looking forward is to reveal the 
molecular and synaptic mechanisms underlying map alignment and to understand the 
physiological and behavioral consequences when these mechanisms are disrupted at 
various scales.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170341 
PMID: 23642132  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2013 Jul 8;36:79-102. doi:
10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170429. Epub 2013 Apr 29.

Sleep for preserving and transforming episodic memory.

Inostroza M(1), Born J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology and Centre for
Integrative Neuroscience, University of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.
marion.inostroza@uni-tuebingen.de

Sleep is known to support memory consolidation. Here we review evidence for an
active system consolidation occurring during sleep. At the beginning of this
process is sleep's ability to preserve episodic experiences preferentially
encoded in hippocampal networks. Repeated neuronal reactivation of these
representations during slow-wave sleep transforms episodic representations into
long-term memories, redistributes them toward extrahippocampal networks, and
qualitatively changes them to decontextualized schema-like representations.
Electroencephalographic (EEG) oscillations regulate the underlying communication:
Hippocampal sharp-wave ripples coalescing with thalamic spindles mediate the
bottom-up transfer of reactivated memory information to extrahippocampal regions.
Neocortical slow oscillations exert a supraordinate top-down control to
synchronize hippocampal reactivations of specific memories to their excitable
up-phase, thus allowing plastic changes in extrahippocampal regions. We propose
that reactivations during sleep are a general mechanism underlying the
abstraction of temporally stable invariants from a flow of input that is solely
structured in time, thus representing a basic mechanism of memory formation.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062012-170429 
PMID: 23642099  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:509-28. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113705.

The auditory hair cell ribbon synapse: from assembly to function.

Safieddine S(1), El-Amraoui A, Petit C.

Author information: 
(1)Institut Pasteur, Unité de Génétique et Physiologie de l'Audition, F75015,
Paris, France. saaid.safieddine@pasteur.fr

Cochlear inner hair cells (IHCs), the mammalian auditory sensory cells, encode
acoustic signals with high fidelity by Graded variations of their membrane
potential trigger rapid and sustained vesicle exocytosis at their ribbon
synapses. The kinetics of glutamate release allows proper transfer of sound
information to the primary afferent auditory neurons. Understanding the
physiological properties and underlying molecular mechanisms of the IHC synaptic 
machinery, and especially its high temporal acuity, which is pivotal to speech
perception, is a central issue of auditory science. During the past decade,
substantial progress in high-resolution imaging and electrophysiological
recordings, as well as the development of genetic approaches both in humans and
in mice, has produced major insights regarding the morphological, physiological, 
and molecular characteristics of this synapse. Here we review this recent
knowledge and discuss how it enlightens the way the IHC ribbon synapse develops
and functions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113705 
PMID: 22715884  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:391-416. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-152832.

Brain plasticity through the life span: learning to learn and action video games.

Bavelier D(1), Green CS, Pouget A, Schrater P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Education Sciences, University of Geneva, 1211
Geneva 4, Switzerland. daphne@bcs.rochester.edu

The ability of the human brain to learn is exceptional. Yet, learning is
typically quite specific to the exact task used during training, a limiting
factor for practical applications such as rehabilitation, workforce training, or 
education. The possibility of identifying training regimens that have a broad
enough impact to transfer to a variety of tasks is thus highly appealing. This
work reviews how complex training environments such as action video game play may
actually foster brain plasticity and learning. This enhanced learning capacity,
termed learning to learn, is considered in light of its computational
requirements and putative neural mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-152832 
PMID: 22715883  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:369-89. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113810.

The complement system: an unexpected role in synaptic pruning during development 
and disease.

Stephan AH(1), Barres BA, Stevens B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California 94305-5125, USA. astephan@stanford.edu

An unexpected role for the classical complement cascade in the elimination of
central nervous system (CNS) synapses has recently been discovered. Complement
proteins are localized to developing CNS synapses during periods of active
synapse elimination and are required for normal brain wiring. The function of
complement proteins in the brain appears analogous to their function in the
immune system: clearance of cellular material that has been tagged for
elimination. Similarly, synapses tagged with complement proteins may be
eliminated by microglial cells expressing complement receptors. In addition,
developing astrocytes release signals that induce the expression of complement
components in the CNS. In the mature brain, early synapse loss is a hallmark of
several neurodegenerative diseases. Complement proteins are profoundly
upregulated in many CNS diseases prior to signs of neuron loss, suggesting a
reactivation of similar developmental mechanisms of complement-mediated synapse
elimination potentially driving disease progression.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113810 
PMID: 22715882  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:181-201. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113618.

Early events in axon/dendrite polarization.

Cheng PL(1), Poo MM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, Taiwan.
plcheng@imb.sinica.edu.tw

Differentiation of axons and dendrites is a critical step in neuronal
development. Here we review the evidence that axon/dendrite formation during
neuronal polarization depends on the intrinsic cytoplasmic asymmetry inherited by
the postmitotic neuron, the exposure of the neuron to extracellular chemical
factors, and the action of anisotropic mechanical forces imposed by the
environment. To better delineate the functions of early signals among a myriad of
cellular components that were shown to influence axon/dendrite formation, we
discuss their functions by distinguishing their roles as determinants, mediators,
or modulators and consider selective degradation of these components as a
potential mechanism for axon/dendrite polarization. Finally, we examine whether
these early events of axon/dendrite formation involve local autocatalytic
activation and long-range inhibition, as postulated by Alan Turing for the
morphogenesis of patterned biological structure.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113618 
PMID: 22715881  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:111-31. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150433.

Evolution of synapse complexity and diversity.

Emes RD(1), Grant SG.

Author information: 
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, University of Nottingham,
Leicestershire LE12 5RD, United Kingdom. richard.emes@nottingham.ac.uk

Proteomic studies of the composition of mammalian synapses have revealed a high
degree of complexity. The postsynaptic and presynaptic terminals are molecular
systems with highly organized protein networks producing emergent physiological
and behavioral properties. The major classes of synapse proteins and their
respective functions in intercellular communication and adaptive responses
evolved in prokaryotes and eukaryotes prior to the origins of neurons in metazoa.
In eukaryotes, the organization of individual proteins into multiprotein
complexes comprising scaffold proteins, receptors, and signaling enzymes formed
the precursor to the core adaptive machinery of the metazoan postsynaptic
terminal. Multiplicative increases in the complexity of this protosynapse
machinery secondary to genome duplications drove synaptic, neuronal, and
behavioral novelty in vertebrates. Natural selection has constrained
diversification in mammalian postsynaptic mechanisms and the repertoire of
adaptive and innate behaviors. The evolution and organization of synapse
proteomes underlie the origins and complexity of nervous systems and behavior.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150433 
PMID: 22715880  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:91-109. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150356.

Primary visual cortex: awareness and blindsight.

Leopold DA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Section on Cognitive Neurophysiology and Imaging, Laboratory of
Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of
Health, Department of Health and Human Services, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
leopoldd@mail.nih.gov

The primary visual cortex (V1) is the principal telencephalic recipient of visual
input in humans and monkeys. It is unique among cortical areas in that its
destruction results in chronic blindness. However, certain patients with V1
damage, though lacking visual awareness, exhibit visually guided behavior:
blindsight. This phenomenon, together with evidence from electrophysiological,
neuroimaging, and psychophysical experiments, has led to speculation that V1
activity has a special or direct role in generating conscious perception. To
explore this issue, this article reviews experiments that have used two powerful 
paradigms--stimulus-induced perceptual suppression and chronic V1 ablation--each 
of which disrupts the ability to perceive salient visual stimuli. Focus is placed
on recent neurophysiological, behavioral, and functional imaging studies from the
nonhuman primate that shed light on V1's role in conscious awareness. In
addition, anatomical pathways that relay visual information to the cortex during 
normal vision and in blindsight are reviewed. Although the critical role of V1 in
primate vision follows naturally from its position as a bottleneck of visual
signals, little evidence supports its direct contribution to visual awareness.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150356 
PMCID: PMC3476047
PMID: 22715879  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:1-23. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150536.

The neural basis of empathy.

Bernhardt BC(1), Singer T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Social Neuroscience, Max-Planck Institute of Human Cognitive and
Brain Sciences, Stephanstraße 1a, 04309 Leipzig, Germany. bernhardt@cbs.mpg.de

Empathy--the ability to share the feelings of others--is fundamental to our
emotional and social lives. Previous human imaging studies focusing on empathy
for others' pain have consistently shown activations in regions also involved in 
the direct pain experience, particularly anterior insula and anterior and
midcingulate cortex. These findings suggest that empathy is, in part, based on
shared representations for firsthand and vicarious experiences of affective
states. Empathic responses are not static but can be modulated by person
characteristics, such as degree of alexithymia. It has also been shown that
contextual appraisal, including perceived fairness or group membership of others,
may modulate empathic neuronal activations. Empathy often involves coactivations 
in further networks associated with social cognition, depending on the specific
situation and information available in the environment. Empathy-related insular
and cingulate activity may reflect domain-general computations representing and
predicting feeling states in self and others, likely guiding adaptive homeostatic
responses and goal-directed behavior in dynamic social contexts.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150536 
PMID: 22715878  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:49-71. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150442. Epub 
2012 Apr 20.

Functional consequences of mutations in postsynaptic scaffolding proteins and
relevance to psychiatric disorders.

Ting JT(1), Peça J, Feng G.

Author information: 
(1)McGovern Institute for Brain Research and Department of Brain and Cognitive
Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, 
USA. jtting@mit.edu

Functional studies on postsynaptic scaffolding proteins at excitatory synapses
have revealed a plethora of important roles for synaptic structure and function. 
In addition, a convergence of recent in vivo functional evidence together with
human genetics data strongly suggest that mutations in a variety of these
postsynaptic scaffolding proteins may contribute to the etiology of diverse human
psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorders, and
obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders. Here we review the most recent evidence 
for several key postsynaptic scaffolding protein families and explore how mouse
genetics and human genetics have intersected to advance our knowledge concerning 
the contributions of these important players to complex brain function and
dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150442 
PMID: 22540979  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:25-47. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150400. Epub 
2012 Apr 20.

Cellular pathways of hereditary spastic paraplegia.

Blackstone C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurogenetics Branch, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA. blackstc@ninds.nih.gov

Human voluntary movement is controlled by the pyramidal motor system, a long CNS 
pathway comprising corticospinal and lower motor neurons. Hereditary spastic
paraplegias (HSPs) are a large, genetically diverse group of inherited neurologic
disorders characterized by a length-dependent distal axonopathy of the
corticospinal tracts, resulting in lower limb spasticity and weakness. A range of
studies are converging on alterations in the shaping of organelles, particularly 
the endoplasmic reticulum, as well as intracellular membrane trafficking and
distribution as primary defects underlying the HSPs, with clear relevance for
other long axonopathies affecting peripheral nerves and lower motor neurons.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150400 
PMID: 22540978  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:559-78. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150527. Epub
2012 Apr 9.

Circuits for skilled reaching and grasping.

Alstermark B(1), Isa T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Integrative Medical Biology, Section of Physiology, Umeå
University, S-901 87 Umeå, Sweden. Bror.Alstermark@physiol.umu.se

From an evolutionary perspective, it is clear that basic motor functions such as 
locomotion and posture are largely controlled by neural circuitries residing in
the spinal cord and brain-stem. The control of voluntary movements such as
skillful reaching and grasping is generally considered to be governed by neural
circuitries in the motor cortex that connect directly to motoneurons via the
corticomotoneuronal (CM) pathway. The CM pathway may act together with several
brain-stem systems that also act directly with motoneurons. This simple view was 
challenged by work in the cat, which lacks the direct CM system, showing that the
motor commands for reaching and grasping could be mediated via spinal
interneurons with input from the motor-cortex and brain-stem systems. It was
further demonstrated that the spinal interneurons mediating the descending
commands for reaching and grasping constitute separate and distinct populations
from those involved in locomotion and posture. The aim of this review is to
describe populations of spinal interneurons that are involved in the control of
skilled reaching and grasping in the cat, monkey, and human.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150527 
PMID: 22524789  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:153-79. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135728. Epub
2012 Apr 12.

Under pressure: cellular and molecular responses during glaucoma, a common
neurodegeneration with axonopathy.

Nickells RW(1), Howell GR, Soto I, John SW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wisconsin 53706, USA. nickells@wisc.edu

Glaucoma is a complex neurodegenerative disorder that is expected to affect 80
million people by the end of this decade. Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are the
most affected cell type and progressively degenerate over the course of the
disease. RGC axons exit the eye and enter the optic nerve by passing through the 
optic nerve head (ONH). The ONH is an important site of initial damage in
glaucoma. Higher intraocular pressure (IOP) is an important risk factor for
glaucoma, but the molecular links between elevated IOP and axon damage in the ONH
are poorly defined. In this review and focusing primarily on the ONH, we discuss 
recent studies that have contributed to understanding the etiology and
pathogenesis of glaucoma. We also identify areas that require further
investigation and focus on mechanisms identified in other neurodegenerations that
may contribute to RGC dysfunction and demise in glaucoma.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135728 
PMID: 22524788  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:73-89. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150525. Epub 
2012 Apr 12.

The attention system of the human brain: 20 years after.

Petersen SE(1), Posner MI.

Author information: 
(1)School of Medicine, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri
63110, USA. sep@npg.wustl.edu

Here, we update our 1990 Annual Review of Neuroscience article, "The Attention
System of the Human Brain." The framework presented in the original article has
helped to integrate behavioral, systems, cellular, and molecular approaches to
common problems in attention research. Our framework has been both elaborated and
expanded in subsequent years. Research on orienting and executive functions has
supported the addition of new networks of brain regions. Developmental studies
have shown important changes in control systems between infancy and childhood. In
some cases, evidence has supported the role of specific genetic variations, often
in conjunction with experience, that account for some of the individual
differences in the efficiency of attentional networks. The findings have led to
increased understanding of aspects of pathology and to some new interventions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150525 
PMCID: PMC3413263
PMID: 22524787  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:133-51. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150520. Epub
2012 Apr 12.

Social control of the brain.

Fernald RD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Biology Department, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.
rfernald@stanford.edu

In the course of evolution, social behavior has been a strikingly potent
selective force in shaping brains to control action. Physiological, cellular, and
molecular processes reflect this evolutionary force, particularly in the
regulation of reproductive behavior and its neural circuitry. Typically,
experimental analysis is directed at how the brain controls behavior, but the
brain is also changed by behavior over evolution, during development, and through
its ongoing function. Understanding how the brain is influenced by behavior
offers unusual experimental challenges. General principles governing the social
regulation of the brain are most evident in the control of reproductive behavior.
This is most likely because reproduction is arguably the most important event in 
an animal's life and has been a powerful and essential selective force over
evolution. Here I describe the mechanisms through which behavior changes the
brain in the service of reproduction using a teleost fish model system.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150520 
PMID: 22524786  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:529-58. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150420. Epub
2012 Apr 17.

Multiple functions of endocannabinoid signaling in the brain.

Katona I(1), Freund TF.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Experimental Medicine, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, 1051
Budapest, Hungary. katona@koki.hu

Despite being regarded as a hippie science for decades, cannabinoid research has 
finally found its well-deserved position in mainstream neuroscience. A series of 
groundbreaking discoveries revealed that endocannabinoid molecules are as
widespread and important as conventional neurotransmitters such as glutamate or
GABA, yet they act in profoundly unconventional ways. We aim to illustrate how
uncovering the molecular, anatomical, and physiological characteristics of
endocannabinoid signaling has revealed new mechanistic insights into several
fundamental phenomena in synaptic physiology. First, we summarize unexpected
advances in the molecular complexity of biogenesis and inactivation of the two
endocannabinoids, anandamide and 2-arachidonoylglycerol. Then, we show how these 
new metabolic routes are integrated into well-known intracellular signaling
pathways. These endocannabinoid-producing signalosomes operate in phasic and
tonic modes, thereby differentially governing homeostatic, short-term, and
long-term synaptic plasticity throughout the brain. Finally, we discuss how cell 
type- and synapse-specific refinement of endocannabinoid signaling may explain
the characteristic behavioral effects of cannabinoids.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150420 
PMCID: PMC4273654
PMID: 22524785  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:417-43. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153138. Epub
2012 Apr 5.

The pathophysiology of fragile X (and what it teaches us about synapses).

Bhakar AL(1), Dölen G, Bear MF.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Picower Institute for Learning and Memory,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
abhakar@mit.edu

Fragile X is the most common known inherited cause of intellectual disability and
autism, and it typically results from transcriptional silencing of FMR1 and loss 
of the encoded protein, FMRP (fragile X mental retardation protein). FMRP is an
mRNA-binding protein that functions at many synapses to inhibit local translation
stimulated by metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) 1 and 5. Recent studies
on the biology of FMRP and the signaling pathways downstream of mGluR1/5 have
yielded deeper insight into how synaptic protein synthesis and plasticity are
regulated by experience. This new knowledge has also suggested ways that altered 
signaling and synaptic function can be corrected in fragile X, and human clinical
trials based on this information are under way.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153138 
PMCID: PMC4327822
PMID: 22483044  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:463-83. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150403. Epub
2012 Apr 5.

Decision-related activity in sensory neurons: correlations among neurons and with
behavior.

Nienborg H(1), Cohen MR, Cumming BG.

Author information: 
(1)Werner Reichardt Center for Integrative Neuroscience, 72076 Tuebingen,
Germany. hnienb@gmail.com

Neurons in early sensory cortex show weak but systematic correlations with
perceptual decisions when trained animals perform at psychophysical threshold.
These correlations are observed across repeated presentations of identical
stimuli and cannot be explained by variation in external factors. The
relationship between the activity of individual sensory neurons and the animal's 
behavioral choice means that even neurons in early sensory cortex carry
information about an upcoming decision. This relationship, termed choice
probability, may reflect the effect of fluctuations in neuronal firing rate on
the animal's decision, but it can also reflect modulation of sensory responses by
cognitive factors, or network properties such as variability that is shared among
populations of neurons. Here, we review recent work clarifying the relationship
among fluctuations in the responses of individual neurons, correlated
variability, and behavior in a variety of tasks and cortical areas. We also
discuss the possibility that choice probability may in part reflect the influence
of cognitive factors on sensory neurons and explore the situations in which
choice probability can be used to make inferences about the role of particular
sensory neurons in the decision-making process.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150403 
PMID: 22483043  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:485-508. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150410.
Epub 2012 Apr 5.

Compressed sensing, sparsity, and dimensionality in neuronal information
processing and data analysis.

Ganguli S(1), Sompolinsky H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Applied Physics, Stanford University, Stanford, California
94305, USA. sganguli@stanford.edu

The curse of dimensionality poses severe challenges to both technical and
conceptual progress in neuroscience. In particular, it plagues our ability to
acquire, process, and model high-dimensional data sets. Moreover, neural systems 
must cope with the challenge of processing data in high dimensions to learn and
operate successfully within a complex world. We review recent mathematical
advances that provide ways to combat dimensionality in specific situations. These
advances shed light on two dual questions in neuroscience. First, how can we as
neuroscientists rapidly acquire high-dimensional data from the brain and
subsequently extract meaningful models from limited amounts of these data? And
second, how do brains themselves process information in their intrinsically
high-dimensional patterns of neural activity as well as learn meaningful,
generalizable models of the external world from limited experience?

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150410 
PMID: 22483042  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:445-62. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153128. Epub
2012 Apr 5.

Central and peripheral circadian clocks in mammals.

Mohawk JA(1), Green CB, Takahashi JS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390-9111, USA. Jennifer.Mohawk@UTSouthwestern.edu

The circadian system of mammals is composed of a hierarchy of oscillators that
function at the cellular, tissue, and systems levels. A common molecular
mechanism underlies the cell-autonomous circadian oscillator throughout the body,
yet this clock system is adapted to different functional contexts. In the central
suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus, a coupled population of
neuronal circadian oscillators acts as a master pacemaker for the organism to
drive rhythms in activity and rest, feeding, body temperature, and hormones.
Coupling within the SCN network confers robustness to the SCN pacemaker, which in
turn provides stability to the overall temporal architecture of the organism.
Throughout the majority of the cells in the body, cell-autonomous circadian
clocks are intimately enmeshed within metabolic pathways. Thus, an emerging view 
for the adaptive significance of circadian clocks is their fundamental role in
orchestrating metabolism.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153128 
PMCID: PMC3710582
PMID: 22483041  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:267-85. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150351. Epub
2012 Mar 29.

Attractor dynamics of spatially correlated neural activity in the limbic system.

Knierim JJ(1), Zhang K.

Author information: 
(1)Krieger Mind/Brain Institute and Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, Maryland 21218, USA. jknierim@jhu.edu

Attractor networks are a popular computational construct used to model different 
brain systems. These networks allow elegant computations that are thought to
represent a number of aspects of brain function. Although there is good reason to
believe that the brain displays attractor dynamics, it has proven difficult to
test experimentally whether any particular attractor architecture resides in any 
particular brain circuit. We review models and experimental evidence for three
systems in the rat brain that are presumed to be components of the rat's
navigational and memory system. Head-direction cells have been modeled as a ring 
attractor, grid cells as a plane attractor, and place cells both as a plane
attractor and as a point attractor. Whereas the models have proven to be
extremely useful conceptual tools, the experimental evidence in their favor,
although intriguing, is still mostly circumstantial.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150351 
PMID: 22462545  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:309-30. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113813. Epub
2012 Mar 29.

Critical-period plasticity in the visual cortex.

Levelt CN(1), Hübener M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Visual Plasticity, Netherlands Institute for
Neuroscience, 1105BA Amsterdam, The Netherlands. c.levelt@nin.knaw.nl

In many regions of the developing brain, neuronal circuits undergo defined phases
of enhanced plasticity, termed critical periods. Work in the rodent visual cortex
has led to important insights into the cellular and molecular mechanisms
regulating the timing of the critical period. Although there is little doubt that
the maturation of specific inhibitory circuits plays a key role in the opening of
the critical period in the visual cortex, it is less clear what puts an end to
it. In this review, we describe the established mechanisms and point out where
more experimental work is needed. We also show that plasticity in the visual
cortex is present well before, and long after, the peak of the critical period.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113813 
PMID: 22462544  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:287-308. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150512.
Epub 2012 Mar 29.

Neural basis of reinforcement learning and decision making.

Lee D(1), Seo H, Jung MW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Kavli Institute for Neuroscience, Yale University 
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06510, USA. daeyeol.lee@yale.edu

Reinforcement learning is an adaptive process in which an animal utilizes its
previous experience to improve the outcomes of future choices. Computational
theories of reinforcement learning play a central role in the newly emerging
areas of neuroeconomics and decision neuroscience. In this framework, actions are
chosen according to their value functions, which describe how much future reward 
is expected from each action. Value functions can be adjusted not only through
reward and penalty, but also by the animal's knowledge of its current
environment. Studies have revealed that a large proportion of the brain is
involved in representing and updating value functions and using them to choose an
action. However, how the nature of a behavioral task affects the neural
mechanisms of reinforcement learning remains incompletely understood. Future
studies should uncover the principles by which different computational elements
of reinforcement learning are dynamically coordinated across the entire brain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150512 
PMCID: PMC3490621
PMID: 22462543  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:347-67. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150543. Epub
2012 Mar 29.

The role of organizers in patterning the nervous system.

Kiecker C(1), Lumsden A.

Author information: 
(1)Medical Research Council Center for Developmental Neurobiology, King's
College, London SE1 1UL, United Kingdom. clemens.kiecker@kcl.ac.uk

The foundation for the anatomical and functional complexity of the vertebrate
central nervous system is laid during embryogenesis. After Spemann's organizer
and its derivatives have endowed the neural plate with a coarse pattern along its
anteroposterior and mediolateral axes, this basis is progressively refined by the
activity of secondary organizers within the neuroepithelium that function by
releasing diffusible signaling factors. Dorsoventral patterning is mediated by
two organizer regions that extend along the dorsal and ventral midlines of the
entire neuraxis, whereas anteroposterior patterning is controlled by several
discrete organizers. Here we review how these secondary organizers are
established and how they exert their signaling functions. Organizer signals come 
from a surprisingly limited set of signaling factor families, indicating that the
competence of target cells to respond to those signals plays an important part in
neural patterning.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150543 
PMID: 22462542  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:331-45. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150546. Epub
2012 Mar 29.

What is the brain-cancer connection?

Cao L(1), During MJ.

Author information: 
(1)College of Medicine, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210, USA.
cao.76@osu.edu

A focus of much cancer research is at the molecular and cellular levels. In
contrast, the effects of social interactions and psychological state are less
investigated, and considered by many a "soft" science. Yet several highly
rigorous studies have begun to tease out biochemical pathways by which the brain 
can influence the development and growth of cancer. Previous reviews have
discussed the concept of stress and cancer. Here, we discuss recent work showing 
environments that are more complex and challenging, but not stressful per se, and
that have robust effects on peripheral cancer by activating a specific
neuroendocrine brain-adipocyte axis. These enriched environments lead to
activation of the sympathetic innervation of fat tissue, suppression of leptin,
and a reduction in cancer proliferation by inducing hypothalamic BDNF expression.
We summarize this work and discuss how these data integrate into the body of
literature regarding stress, the environment, and cancer.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150546 
PMID: 22462541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:203-25. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150444. Epub
2012 Mar 20.

Mechanisms of gamma oscillations.

Buzsáki G(1), Wang XJ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers, The State
University of New Jersey, Newark, New Jersey 07102, USA. Gyorgy.Buzsaki@nyumc.org

Gamma rhythms are commonly observed in many brain regions during both waking and 
sleep states, yet their functions and mechanisms remain a matter of debate. Here 
we review the cellular and synaptic mechanisms underlying gamma oscillations and 
outline empirical questions and controversial conceptual issues. Our main points 
are as follows: First, gamma-band rhythmogenesis is inextricably tied to
perisomatic inhibition. Second, gamma oscillations are short-lived and typically 
emerge from the coordinated interaction of excitation and inhibition, which can
be detected as local field potentials. Third, gamma rhythm typically concurs with
irregular firing of single neurons, and the network frequency of gamma
oscillations varies extensively depending on the underlying mechanism. To
document gamma oscillations, efforts should be made to distinguish them from mere
increases of gamma-band power and/or increased spiking activity. Fourth, the
magnitude of gamma oscillation is modulated by slower rhythms. Such
cross-frequency coupling may serve to couple active patches of cortical circuits.
Because of their ubiquitous nature and strong correlation with the "operational
modes" of local circuits, gamma oscillations continue to provide important clues 
about neuronal population dynamics in health and disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150444 
PMCID: PMC4049541
PMID: 22443509  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:227-47. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150500. Epub
2012 Mar 20.

The restless engram: consolidations never end.

Dudai Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100,
Israel. yadin.dudai@weizmann.ac.il

Memory consolidation is the hypothetical process in which an item in memory is
transformed into a long-term form. It is commonly addressed at two complementary 
levels of description and analysis: the cellular/synaptic level (synaptic
consolidation) and the brain systems level (systems consolidation). This article 
focuses on selected recent advances in consolidation research, including the
reconsolidation of long-term memory items, the brain mechanisms of transformation
of the content and of cue-dependency of memory items over time, as well as the
role of rest and sleep in consolidating and shaping memories. Taken together, the
picture that emerges is of dynamic engrams that are formed, modified, and
remodified over time at the systems level by using synaptic consolidation
mechanisms as subroutines. This implies that, contrary to interpretations that
have dominated neuroscience for a while, but similar to long-standing cognitive
concepts, consolidation of at least some items in long-term memory may never
really come to an end.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150500 
PMID: 22443508  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2012;35:249-65. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150339. Epub
2012 Mar 20.

The physiology of the axon initial segment.

Bender KJ(1), Trussell LO.

Author information: 
(1)Oregon Hearing Research Center and Vollum Institute, Oregon Health and Science
University, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA. kbender@gallo.ucsf.edu

The action potential generally begins in the axon initial segment (AIS), a
principle confirmed by 60 years of research; however, the most recent advances
have shown that a very rich biology underlies this simple observation. The AIS
has a remarkably complex molecular composition, with a wide variety of ion
channels and attendant mechanisms for channel localization, and may feature
membrane domains each with distinct roles in excitation. Its function may be
regulated in the short term through the action of neurotransmitters, in the long 
term through activity- and Ca(2+)-dependent processes. Thus, the AIS is not
merely the beginning of the axon, but rather a key site in the control of
neuronal excitability.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150339 
PMID: 22443507  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:569-99. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113731.

Spatial neglect and attention networks.

Corbetta M(1), Shulman GL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
Missouri 63110, USA. mau@npg.wustl.edu

Unilateral spatial neglect is a common neurological syndrome following
predominantly right hemisphere injuries and is characterized by both spatial and 
non-spatial deficits. Core spatial deficits involve mechanisms for saliency
coding, spatial attention, and short-term memory and occur in conjunction with
nonspatial deficits that involve reorienting, target detection, and
arousal/vigilance. We argue that neglect is better explained by the dysfunction
of distributed cortical networks for the control of attention than by structural 
damage of specific brain regions. Ventral lesions in right parietal, temporal,
and frontal cortex that cause neglect directly impair nonspatial functions partly
mediated by a ventral frontoparietal attention network. Structural damage in
ventral cortex also induces physiological abnormalities of task-evoked activity
and functional connectivity in a dorsal frontoparietal network that controls
spatial attention. The anatomy and right hemisphere dominance of neglect follow
from the anatomy and laterality of the ventral regions that interact with the
dorsal attention network.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113731 
PMCID: PMC3790661
PMID: 21692662  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:389-412. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113817.

The development and application of optogenetics.

Fenno L(1), Yizhar O, Deisseroth K.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA.

Genetically encoded, single-component optogenetic tools have made a significant
impact on neuroscience, enabling specific modulation of selected cells within
complex neural tissues. As the optogenetic toolbox contents grow and diversify,
the opportunities for neuroscience continue to grow. In this review, we outline
the development of currently available single-component optogenetic tools and
summarize the application of various optogenetic tools in diverse model
organisms.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113817 
PMID: 21692661  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:289-307. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113638.

Deep brain stimulation for psychiatric disorders.

Holtzheimer PE(1), Mayberg HS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Emory University School of
Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA. pholtzh@emory.edu

Medications, psychotherapy, and other treatments are effective for many patients 
with psychiatric disorders. However, with currently available interventions, a
substantial number of patients experience incomplete resolution of symptoms, and 
relapse rates are high. In the search for better treatments, increasing interest 
has focused on focal neuromodulation. This focus has been driven by improved
neuroanatomical models of mood, thought, and behavior regulation, as well as by
more advanced strategies for directly and focally altering neural activity. Deep 
brain stimulation (DBS) is one of the most invasive focal neuromodulation
techniques available; data have supported its safety and efficacy in a number of 
movement disorders. Investigators have produced preliminary data on the safety
and efficacy of DBS for several psychiatric disorders, as well. In this review,
we describe the development and justification for testing DBS for various
psychiatric disorders, carefully consider the available clinical data, and
briefly discuss potential mechanisms of action.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113638 
PMCID: PMC4413475
PMID: 21692660  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:233-58. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113738.

Olfactory maps in the brain.

Murthy VN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology and Center for Brain Science,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. vnmurthy@fas.harvard.edu

The responses of neural elements in many sensory areas of the brain vary
systematically with their physical position, leading to a topographic
representation of the outside world. Sensory representation in the olfactory
system has been harder to decipher, in part because it is difficult to find
appropriate metrics to characterize odor space and to sample this space densely. 
Recent experiments have shown that the arrangement of glomeruli, the elementary
units of processing, is relatively invariant across individuals in a species, yet
it is flexible enough to accommodate new sensors that might be added. Evidence
supports the existence of coarse spatial domains carved out on a genetic or
functional basis, but a systematic organization of odor responses or neural
circuits on a local scale is not evident. Experiments and theory that relate the 
properties of odorant receptors to the detailed wiring diagram of the downstream 
olfactory circuits and to behaviors they trigger may reveal the design principles
that have emerged during evolution.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113738 
PMID: 21692659  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:153-84. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113824.

Transcriptional control of the terminal fate of monoaminergic neurons.

Flames N(1), Hobert O.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Howard Hughes Medical
Institute, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York 10032, USA.
nflamesb@gmail.com

Monoaminergic neurons are critical functional components of all nervous systems
across phylogeny. The terminally differentiated state of individual types of
monoaminergic neurons is defined by the coordinated expression of a battery of
genes that instructs the synthesis and transport of specific monoamines, such as 
serotonin or dopamine. Dysfunction or deregulation of several of these enzymes
and transporter system has been proposed to be the underlying basis of several
pathological conditions. We review here the state of knowledge of the nature of
the transcriptional regulatory programs that control the expression of what we
term monoaminergic gene batteries (enzymes and transporters for specific
monoamines) and thereby define the terminally differentiated state of
monoaminergic neurons. We review several case studies in vertebrate and
invertebrate model systems and propose that the coordinated expression of the
genes that define individual monoaminergic cell types may be brought about by
transcriptional coregulatory strategies.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113824 
PMID: 21692658  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


121. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:21-43. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113629.

Myelin regeneration: a recapitulation of development?

Fancy SP(1), Chan JR, Baranzini SE, Franklin RJ, Rowitch DH.

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Pediatrics and Neurosurgery, Eli and Edyth Broad Institute for 
Stem Cell Research and Regeneration Medicine and Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
University of California, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

The developmental process of myelination and the adult regenerative process of
remyelination share the common objective of investing nerve axons with myelin
sheaths. A central question in myelin biology is the extent to which the
mechanisms of these two processes are conserved, a concept encapsulated in the
recapitulation hypothesis of remyelination. This question also has relevance for 
translating myelin biology into a better understanding of and eventual treatments
for human myelin disorders. Here we review the current evidence for the
recapitulation hypothesis and discuss recent findings in the development and
regeneration of myelin in the context of human neurological disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113629 
PMID: 21692657  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:601-28. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153200.

General anesthesia and altered states of arousal: a systems neuroscience
analysis.

Brown EN(1), Purdon PL, Van Dort CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anesthesia, Critical Care and Pain Medicine, Massachusetts
General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
enb@neurostat.mit.edu

Placing a patient in a state of general anesthesia is crucial for safely and
humanely performing most surgical and many nonsurgical procedures. How anesthetic
drugs create the state of general anesthesia is considered a major mystery of
modern medicine. Unconsciousness, induced by altered arousal and/or cognition, is
perhaps the most fascinating behavioral state of general anesthesia. We perform a
systems neuroscience analysis of the altered arousal states induced by five
classes of intravenous anesthetics by relating their behavioral and physiological
features to the molecular targets and neural circuits at which these drugs are
purported to act. The altered states of arousal are sedation-unconsciousness,
sedation-analgesia, dissociative anesthesia, pharmacologic non-REM sleep, and
neuroleptic anesthesia. Each altered arousal state results from the anesthetic
drugs acting at multiple targets in the central nervous system. Our analysis
shows that general anesthesia is less mysterious than currently believed.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153200 
PMCID: PMC3390788
PMID: 21513454  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:467-99. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-112210-112917.

How is the olfactory map formed and interpreted in the mammalian brain?

Mori K(1), Sakano H.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Graduate School of Medicine, University of Tokyo,
Tokyo 113-0033, Japan. moriken@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Odor signals received by odorant receptors (ORs) expressed by olfactory sensory
neurons (OSNs) in the olfactory epithelium (OE) are represented as an odor map in
the olfactory bulb (OB). In the mouse, there are ~1,000 different OR species, and
each OSN expresses only one functional OR gene in a monoallelic manner.
Furthermore, OSN axons expressing the same type of OR converge on a specific
target site in the OB, forming a glomerular structure. Because each glomerulus
represents a single OR species, and a single odorant can interact with multiple
OR species, odor signals received in the OE are converted into a topographic map 
of multiple glomeruli activated with varying magnitudes. Here we review recent
progress in the study of the mammalian olfactory system, focusing on the
formation of the olfactory map and the transmission of topographical information 
in the OB to the olfactory cortex to elicit various behaviors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-112210-112917 
PMID: 21469960  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:501-34. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113710.

Vestibular hair cells and afferents: two channels for head motion signals.

Eatock RA(1), Songer JE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otology and Laryngology, Department of Neurobiology, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA. eatock@meei.harvard.edu

Vestibular epithelia of the inner ear detect head motions over a wide range of
amplitudes and frequencies. In mammals, afferent nerve fibers from central and
peripheral zones of vestibular epithelia form distinct populations with different
response dynamics and spike timing. Central-zone afferents are large, fast
conduits for phasic signals encoded in irregular spike trains. The finer
afferents from peripheral zones conduct more slowly and encode more tonic, linear
signals in highly regular spike trains. The hair cells are also of two types, I
and II, but the two types do not correspond directly to the two afferent
populations. Zonal differences in afferent response dynamics may arise at
multiple stages, including mechanoelectrical transduction, voltage-gated channels
in hair cells and afferents, afferent transmission at calyceal and bouton
synapses, and spike generation in regular and irregular afferents. In contrast,
zonal differences in spike timing may depend more simply on the selective
expression of low-voltage-activated ion channels by irregular afferents.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113710 
PMID: 21469959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:535-67. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113717.

Mechanisms of inhibition within the telencephalon: "where the wild things are".

Fishell G(1), Rudy B.

Author information: 
(1)Smilow Neuroscience Program, Smilow Research Center, New York University
School of Medicine, New York, New York 10016, USA. fishell@saturn.med.nyu.edu

In this review, we first provide a historical perspective of inhibitory signaling
from the discovery of inhibition through to our present understanding of the
diversity and mechanisms by which GABAergic interneuron populations function in
different parts of the telencephalon. This is followed by a summary of the
mechanisms of inhibition in the CNS. With this as a starting point, we provide an
overview describing the variations in the subtypes and origins of inhibitory
interneurons within the pallial and subpallial divisions of the telencephalon,
with a focus on the hippocampus, somatosensory, paleo/piriform cortex, striatum, 
and various amygdala nuclei. Strikingly, we observe that marked variations exist 
in the origin and numerical balance between GABAergic interneurons and the
principal cell populations in distinct regions of the telencephalon. Finally we
speculate regarding the attractiveness and challenges of establishing a unifying 
nomenclature to describe inhibitory neuron diversity throughout the
telencephalon.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113717 
PMCID: PMC3556485
PMID: 21469958  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:413-40. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113746.

Recovery of locomotion after spinal cord injury: some facts and mechanisms.

Rossignol S(1), Frigon A.

Author information: 
(1)Groupe de Recherche sur le Système Nerveux Central, Department of Physiology, 
and Multidisciplinary Team in Locomotor Rehabilitation of the Canadian Institutes
for Health Research, Université de Montréal, Montreal H3C 3J7, Canada.
Serge.Rossignol@umontreal.ca

After spinal cord injury (SCI), various sensorimotor functions can recover,
ranging from simple spinal reflexes to more elaborate motor patterns, such as
locomotion. Locomotor recovery after complete spinalization (complete SCI) must
depend on the presence of spinal circuitry capable of generating the complex
sequential activation of various leg muscles. This is achieved by an intrinsic
spinal circuitry, termed the central pattern generator (CPG), working in
conjunction with sensory feedback from the legs. After SCI, different changes in 
cellular and circuit properties occur spontaneously and can be promoted by
pharmacological, electrical, or rehabilitation strategies. After partial SCI,
hindlimb locomotor recovery can result from regeneration or sprouting of spared
pathways, but also from mechanisms observed after complete SCI, namely changes
within the intrinsic spinal circuitry and sensory inputs.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113746 
PMID: 21469957  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:441-66. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113641.

Modulation of striatal projection systems by dopamine.

Gerfen CR(1), Surmeier DJ.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Systems Neuroscience, National Institute of Mental Health,
Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. gerfenc@mail.nih.gov

The basal ganglia are a chain of subcortical nuclei that facilitate action
selection. Two striatal projection systems--so-called direct and indirect
pathways--form the functional backbone of the basal ganglia circuit. Twenty years
ago, investigators proposed that the striatum's ability to use dopamine (DA) rise
and fall to control action selection was due to the segregation of D(1) and D(2) 
DA receptors in direct- and indirect-pathway spiny projection neurons. Although
this hypothesis sparked a debate, the evidence that has accumulated since then
clearly supports this model. Recent advances in the means of marking neural
circuits with optical or molecular reporters have revealed a clear-cut dichotomy 
between these two cell types at the molecular, anatomical, and physiological
levels. The contrast provided by these studies has provided new insights into how
the striatum responds to fluctuations in DA signaling and how diseases that alter
this signaling change striatal function.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113641 
PMCID: PMC3487690
PMID: 21469956  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:185-204. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113613.

Amyloid precursor protein processing and Alzheimer's disease.

O'Brien RJ(1), Wong PC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, USA.
robrien@jhmi.edu

Alzheimer's disease (AD), the leading cause of dementia worldwide, is
characterized by the accumulation of the β-amyloid peptide (Aβ) within the brain 
along with hyperphosphorylated and cleaved forms of the microtubule-associated
protein tau. Genetic, biochemical, and behavioral research suggest that
physiologic generation of the neurotoxic Aβ peptide from sequential amyloid
precursor protein (APP) proteolysis is the crucial step in the development of AD.
APP is a single-pass transmembrane protein expressed at high levels in the brain 
and metabolized in a rapid and highly complex fashion by a series of sequential
proteases, including the intramembranous γ-secretase complex, which also process 
other key regulatory molecules. Why Aβ accumulates in the brains of elderly
individuals is unclear but could relate to changes in APP metabolism or Aβ
elimination. Lessons learned from biochemical and genetic studies of APP
processing will be crucial to the development of therapeutic targets to treat AD.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113613 
PMCID: PMC3174086
PMID: 21456963  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:205-31. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113728.

Motor functions of the superior colliculus.

Gandhi NJ(1), Katnani HA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania 15213, USA. neg8@pitt.edu

The mammalian superior colliculus (SC) and its nonmammalian homolog, the optic
tectum, constitute a major node in processing sensory information, incorporating 
cognitive factors, and issuing motor commands. The resulting action-to orient
toward or away from a stimulus-can be accomplished as an integrated movement
across oculomotor, cephalomotor, and skeletomotor effectors. The SC also
participates in preserving fixation during intersaccadic intervals. This review
highlights the repertoire of movements attributed to SC function and analyzes the
significance of results obtained from causality-based experiments
(microstimulation and inactivation). The mechanisms potentially used to decode
the population activity in the SC into an appropriate movement command are also
discussed.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113728 
PMCID: PMC3641825
PMID: 21456962  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:333-59. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113648.

Neurobiology of economic choice: a good-based model.

Padoa-Schioppa C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University in St. Louis,
St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. camillo@wustl.edu

Traditionally the object of economic theory and experimental psychology, economic
choice recently became a lively research focus in systems neuroscience. Here I
summarize the emerging results and propose a unifying model of how economic
choice might function at the neural level. Economic choice entails comparing
options that vary on multiple dimensions. Hence, while choosing, individuals
integrate different determinants into a subjective value; decisions are then made
by comparing values. According to the good-based model, the values of different
goods are computed independently of one another, which implies transitivity.
Values are not learned as such, but rather computed at the time of choice. Most
importantly, values are compared within the space of goods, independent of the
sensorimotor contingencies of choice. Evidence from neurophysiology, imaging, and
lesion studies indicates that abstract representations of value exist in the
orbitofrontal and ventromedial prefrontal cortices. The computation and
comparison of values may thus take place within these regions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113648 
PMCID: PMC3273993
PMID: 21456961  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:259-88. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113720.

The cognitive neuroscience of human memory since H.M.

Squire LR(1), Wixted JT.

Author information: 
(1)Veterans Affairs Healthcare System, San Diego, California 92161, USA.
lsquire@ucsd.edu

Work with patient H.M., beginning in the 1950s, established key principles about 
the organization of memory that inspired decades of experimental work. Since
H.M., the study of human memory and its disorders has continued to yield new
insights and to improve understanding of the structure and organization of
memory. Here we review this work with emphasis on the neuroanatomy of medial
temporal lobe and diencephalic structures important for memory, multiple memory
systems, visual perception, immediate memory, memory consolidation, the locus of 
long-term memory storage, the concepts of recollection and familiarity, and the
question of how different medial temporal lobe structures may contribute
differently to memory functions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113720 
PMCID: PMC3192650
PMID: 21456960  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:361-88. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113819.

The extraction of 3D shape in the visual system of human and nonhuman primates.

Orban GA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratorium voor Neuro-en Psychofysiologie, KU Leuven Medical School, Leuven,
Belgium. guy.orban@med.kuleuven.be

Depth structure, the third dimension of object shape, is extracted from
disparity, motion, texture, and shading in the optic array. Gradient-selective
neurons play a key role in this process. Such neurons occur in CIP, AIP, TEs, and
F5 (for first- or second-order disparity gradients), in MT/V5, in FST (for speed 
gradients), and in CIP and TEs (for texture gradients). Most of these regions are
activated during magnetic resonance scanning in alert monkeys by comparing 3D
conditions with the 2D controls for the different cues. Similarities in
activation patterns of monkeys and humans tested with identical paradigms suggest
that like gradient-selective neurons are found in corresponding human cortical
areas. This view gains credence as the homologies between such areas become more 
evident. Furthermore, 3D shape-processing networks are similar in the two
species, with the exception of the greater involvement of human posterior
parietal cortex in the extraction of 3D shape from motion. Thus we can begin to
understand how depth structure is extracted from motion, disparity, and texture
in the primate brain, but the extraction of depth structure from shading and that
of wire-like objects requires further scrutiny.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113819 
PMID: 21456959  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:309-31. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113749.

Three-dimensional transformations for goal-directed action.

Crawford JD(1), Henriques DY, Medendorp WP.

Author information: 
(1)York Centre for Vision Research, Canadian Action and Perception Network, and
Departments of Psychology, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M3J 1P3. jdc@yorku.ca

Much of the central nervous system is involved in visuomotor transformations for 
goal-directed gaze and reach movements. These transformations are often described
in terms of stimulus location, gaze fixation, and reach endpoints, as viewed
through the lens of translational geometry. Here, we argue that the intrinsic
(primarily rotational) 3-D geometry of the eye-head-reach systems determines the 
spatial relationship between extrinsic goals and effector commands, and therefore
the required transformations. This approach provides a common theoretical
framework for understanding both gaze and reach control. Combined with an
assessment of the behavioral, neurophysiological, imaging, and neuropsychological
literature, this framework leads us to conclude that (a) the internal
representation and updating of visual goals are dominated by gaze-centered
mechanisms, but (b) these representations must then be transformed as a function 
of eye and head orientation signals into effector-specific 3-D movement commands.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113749 
PMID: 21456958  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:89-103. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153238.

Too many cooks? Intrinsic and synaptic homeostatic mechanisms in cortical circuit
refinement.

Turrigiano G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Center for Complex Systems, and Center for Behavioral
Genomics, Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts 02454, USA.
Turrigiano@brandeis.edu

Maintaining the proper balance between excitation and inhibition is critical for 
the normal function of cortical circuits. This balance is thought to be
maintained by an array of homeostatic mechanisms that regulate neuronal and
circuit excitability, including mechanisms that target excitatory and inhibitory 
synapses, and mechanisms that target intrinsic neuronal excitability. In this
review, I discuss where and when these mechanisms are used in complex
microcircuits, what is currently known about the signaling pathways that underlie
them, and how these different ways of achieving network stability cooperate
and/or compete. An important challenge for the field of homeostatic plasticity is
to assemble our understanding of these individual mechanisms into a coherent view
of how microcircuit stability is maintained during experience-dependent circuit
refinement.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153238 
PMID: 21438687  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:105-30. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113734.

Reward, addiction, withdrawal to nicotine.

De Biasi M(1), Dani JA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Center on Addiction, Learning, Memory, Baylor
College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. debiasi@bcm.edu

Nicotine is the principal addictive component that drives continued tobacco use
despite users' knowledge of the harmful consequences. The initiation of addiction
involves the mesocorticolimbic dopamine system, which contributes to the
processing of rewarding sensory stimuli during the overall shaping of successful 
behaviors. Acting mainly through nicotinic receptors containing the α4 and β2
subunits, often in combination with the α6 subunit, nicotine increases the firing
rate and the phasic bursts by midbrain dopamine neurons. Neuroadaptations arise
during chronic exposure to nicotine, producing an altered brain condition that
requires the continued presence of nicotine to be maintained. When nicotine is
removed, a withdrawal syndrome develops. The expression of somatic withdrawal
symptoms depends mainly on the α5, α2, and β4 (and likely α3) nicotinic subunits 
involving the epithalamic habenular complex and its targets. Thus, nicotine taps 
into diverse neural systems and an array of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor
(nAChR) subtypes to influence reward, addiction, and withdrawal.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113734 
PMCID: PMC3137256
PMID: 21438686  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:69-88. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113654.

Gender development and the human brain.

Hines M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Social and Developmental Psychology, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, CB2 3RQ, United Kingdom. mh504@cam.ac.uk

Convincing evidence indicates that prenatal exposure to the gonadal hormone,
testosterone, influences the development of children's sex-typical toy and
activity interests. In addition, growing evidence shows that testosterone
exposure contributes similarly to the development of other human behaviors that
show sex differences, including sexual orientation, core gender identity, and
some, though not all, sex-related cognitive and personality characteristics. In
addition to these prenatal hormonal influences, early infancy and puberty may
provide additional critical periods when hormones influence human neurobehavioral
organization. Sex-linked genes could also contribute to human gender development,
and most sex-related characteristics are influenced by socialization and other
aspects of postnatal experience, as well. Neural mechanisms underlying the
influences of gonadal hormones on human behavior are beginning to be identified. 
Although the neural mechanisms underlying experiential influences remain largely 
uninvestigated, they could involve the same neural circuitry as that affected by 
hormones.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113654 
PMID: 21438685  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:131-52. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113723.

Neuronal intrinsic mechanisms of axon regeneration.

Liu K(1), Tedeschi A, Park KK, He Z.

Author information: 
(1)FM Kirby Neurobiology Center, Children's Hospital, and Department of
Neurology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Failure of axon regeneration after central nervous system (CNS) injuries results 
in permanent functional deficits. Numerous studies in the past suggested that
blocking extracellular inhibitory influences alone is insufficient to allow the
majority of injured axons to regenerate, pointing to the importance of revisiting
the hypothesis that diminished intrinsic regenerative ability critically
underlies regeneration failure. Recent studies in different species and using
different injury models have started to reveal important cellular and molecular
mechanisms within neurons that govern axon regeneration. This review summarizes
these observations and discusses possible strategies for stimulating axon
regeneration and perhaps functional recovery after CNS injury.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113723 
PMID: 21438684  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:45-67. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153218.

Neural representations for object perception: structure, category, and adaptive
coding.

Kourtzi Z(1), Connor CE.

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15
2TT, United Kingdom. z.kourtzi@bham.ac.uk

Object perception is one of the most remarkable capacities of the primate brain. 
Owing to the large and indeterminate dimensionality of object space, the neural
basis of object perception has been difficult to study and remains controversial.
Recent work has provided a more precise picture of how 2D and 3D object structure
is encoded in intermediate and higher-level visual cortices. Yet, other studies
suggest that higher-level visual cortex represents categorical identity rather
than structure. Furthermore, object responses are surprisingly adaptive to
changes in environmental statistics, implying that learning through evolution,
development, and also shorter-term experience during adulthood may optimize the
object code. Future progress in reconciling these findings will depend on more
effective sampling of the object domain and direct comparison of these competing 
hypotheses.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153218 
PMID: 21438683  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2011;34:1-19. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113632.

Collision detection as a model for sensory-motor integration.

Fotowat H(1), Gabbiani F.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, H3A-1B1, Canada.
haleh.fotowat@mcgill.ca

Visually guided collision avoidance is critical for the survival of many animals.
The execution of successful collision-avoidance behaviors requires accurate
processing of approaching threats by the visual system and signaling of threat
characteristics to motor circuits to execute appropriate motor programs in a
timely manner. Consequently, visually guided collision avoidance offers an
excellent model with which to study the neural mechanisms of sensory-motor
integration in the context of a natural behavior. Neurons that selectively
respond to approaching threats and brain areas processing them have been
characterized across many species. In locusts in particular, the underlying
sensory and motor processes have been analyzed in great detail: These animals
possess an identified neuron, called the LGMD, that responds selectively to
approaching threats and conveys that information through a second identified
neuron, the DCMD, to motor centers, generating escape jumps. A combination of
behavioral and in vivo electrophysiological experiments has unraveled many of the
cellular and network mechanisms underlying this behavior.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113632 
PMID: 21391815  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:441-72. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153227.

The genomic, biochemical, and cellular responses of the retina in inherited
photoreceptor degenerations and prospects for the treatment of these disorders.

Bramall AN(1), Wright AF, Jacobson SG, McInnes RR.

Author information: 
(1)Programs in Genetics and Developmental Biology, The Research Institute, The
Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto M5G1L7, Canada. alexa.bramall@utoronto.ca

The association of more than 140 genes with human photoreceptor degenerations,
together with studies of animal models of these monogenic diseases, has provided 
great insight into their pathogenesis. Here we review the responses of the retina
to photoreceptor mutations, including mechanisms of photoreceptor death. We
discuss the roles of oxidative metabolism, mitochondrial reactive oxygen species,
metabolic stress, protein misfolding, and defects in ciliary proteins, as well as
the responses of Müller glia, microglia, and the retinal vasculature. Finally, we
report on potential pharmacologic and biologic therapies, the critical role of
histopathology as a prerequisite to treatment, and the exciting promise of gene
therapy in animal models and in phase 1 trials in humans.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153227 
PMID: 20572772  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:203-19. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135546.

Category learning in the brain.

Seger CA(1), Miller EK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Program in Molecular, Cellular, and Integrative
Neurosciences, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, Colorado 80523, USA.
Carol.Seger@colostate.edu

The ability to group items and events into functional categories is a fundamental
characteristic of sophisticated thought. It is subserved by plasticity in many
neural systems, including neocortical regions (sensory, prefrontal, parietal, and
motor cortex), the medial temporal lobe, the basal ganglia, and midbrain
dopaminergic systems. These systems interact during category learning.
Corticostriatal loops may mediate recursive, bootstrapping interactions between
fast reward-gated plasticity in the basal ganglia and slow reward-shaded
plasticity in the cortex. This can provide a balance between acquisition of
details of experiences and generalization across them. Interactions between the
corticostriatal loops can integrate perceptual, response, and feedback-related
aspects of the task and mediate the shift from novice to skilled performance. The
basal ganglia and medial temporal lobe interact competitively or cooperatively,
depending on the demands of the learning task.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135546 
PMCID: PMC3709834
PMID: 20572771  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:131-49. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153252.

Watching synaptogenesis in the adult brain.

Kelsch W(1), Sim S, Lois C.

Author information: 
(1)Picower Institute of Learning and Memory, Department of Biology and Brain,
Massachussetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.
kelsch@mit.edu

Although the lifelong addition of new neurons to the olfactory bulb and dentate
gyrus of mammalian brains is by now an accepted fact, the function of
adult-generated neurons still largely remains a mystery. The ability of new
neurons to form synapses with preexisting neurons without disrupting circuit
function is central to the hypothesized role of adult neurogenesis as a substrate
for learning and memory. With the development of several new genetic labeling and
imaging techniques, the study of synapse development and integration of these new
neurons into mature circuits both in vitro and in vivo is rapidly advancing our
insight into their structural plasticity. Investigators' observation of
synaptogenesis occurring in the adult brain is beginning to shed light on the
flexibility that adult neurogenesis offers to mature circuits and the potential
contribution of the transient plasticity that new neurons provide toward circuit 
refinement and adaptation to changing environmental demands.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153252 
PMID: 20572770  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:109-30. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153151.

How does neuroscience affect our conception of volition?

Roskies AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Philosophy, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire 03755,
USA. adina.roskies@dartmouth.edu

Although there is no clear concept of volition or the will, we do have intuitive 
ideas that characterize the will, agency, and voluntary behavior. Here I review
results from a number of strands of neuroscientific research that bear upon our
intuitive notions of the will. These neuroscientific results provide some insight
into the neural circuits mediating behaviors that we identify as related to will 
and volition. Although some researchers contend that neuroscience will undermine 
our views about free will, to date no results have succeeded in fundamentally
disrupting our common sense beliefs. Still, the picture emerging from
neuroscience does raise new questions, and ultimately may put pressure on some
intuitive notions about what is necessary for free will.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153151 
PMID: 20572769  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:71-88. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153144.

Molecular pathways of frontotemporal lobar degeneration.

Sleegers K(1), Cruts M, Van Broeckhoven C.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Brain Diseases Group, Department of Molecular Genetics, VIB,
Universiteitsplein 1, B-2610 Antwerpen, Belgium.
kristel.sleegers@molgen.vib-ua.be

Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a neurodegenerative condition that
predominantly affects behavior, social awareness, and language. It is
characterized by extensive heterogeneity at the clinical, pathological, and
genetic levels. Recognition of these levels of heterogeneity is important for
proper disease management. The identification of progranulin and TDP-43 as key
proteins in a significant proportion of FTLD patients has provided the impetus
for a wealth of studies probing their role in neurodegeneration. This review
highlights the most recent developments and future directions in this field and
puts them in perspective of the novel insights into the neurodegenerative
process, which have been gained from related disorders, e.g., the role of FUS in 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153144 
PMID: 20415586  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:325-47. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153234.

Sodium channels in normal and pathological pain.

Dib-Hajj SD(1), Cummins TR, Black JA, Waxman SG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510, USA.

Nociception is essential for survival whereas pathological pain is maladaptive
and often unresponsive to pharmacotherapy. Voltage-gated sodium channels,
Na(v)1.1-Na(v)1.9, are essential for generation and conduction of electrical
impulses in excitable cells. Human and animal studies have identified several
channels as pivotal for signal transmission along the pain axis, including
Na(v)1.3, Na(v)1.7, Na(v)1.8, and Na(v)1.9, with the latter three preferentially 
expressed in peripheral sensory neurons and Na(v)1.3 being upregulated along
pain-signaling pathways after nervous system injuries. Na(v)1.7 is of special
interest because it has been linked to a spectrum of inherited human pain
disorders. Here we review the contribution of these sodium channel isoforms to
pain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153234 
PMID: 20367448  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:409-40. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135722.

Motor neuron diversity in development and disease.

Kanning KC(1), Kaplan A, Henderson CE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Center for Motor Neuron Biology and Disease, Columbia
University Medical Center, New York, NY 10032, USA.

Although often considered as a group, spinal motor neurons are highly diverse in 
terms of their morphology, connectivity, and functional properties and differ
significantly in their response to disease. Recent studies of motor neuron
diversity have clarified developmental mechanisms and provided novel insights
into neurodegeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Motor neurons of
different classes and subtypes--fast/slow, alpha/gamma--are grouped together into
motor pools, each of which innervates a single skeletal muscle. Distinct
mechanisms regulate their development. For example, glial cell line-derived
neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has effects that are pool-specific on motor neuron
connectivity, column-specific on axonal growth, and subtype-specific on survival.
In multiple degenerative contexts including ALS, spinal muscular atrophy (SMA),
and aging, fast-fatigable (FF) motor units degenerate early, whereas motor
neurons innervating slow muscles and those involved in eye movement and pelvic
sphincter control are strikingly preserved. Extrinsic and intrinsic mechanisms
that confer resistance represent promising therapeutic targets in these currently
incurable diseases.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135722 
PMID: 20367447  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:473-507. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135302.

Genetics and cell biology of building specific synaptic connectivity.

Shen K(1), Scheiffele P.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biology and Pathology, Stanford
University, Stanford, California 94305, USA. kangshen@stanford.edu

The assembly of specific synaptic connections during development of the nervous
system represents a remarkable example of cellular recognition and
differentiation. Neurons employ several different cellular signaling strategies
to solve this puzzle, which successively limit unwanted interactions and reduce
the number of direct recognition events that are required to result in a specific
connectivity pattern. Specificity mechanisms include the action of
contact-mediated and long-range signals that support or inhibit synapse
formation, which can take place directly between synaptic partners or with
transient partners and transient cell populations. The molecular signals that
drive the synaptic differentiation process at individual synapses in the central 
nervous system are similarly diverse and act through multiple, parallel
differentiation pathways. This molecular complexity balances the need for central
circuits to be assembled with high accuracy during development while retaining
plasticity for local and dynamic regulation.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135302 
PMCID: PMC3082953
PMID: 20367446  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:379-408. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-152829.

Connecting vascular and nervous system development: angiogenesis and the
blood-brain barrier.

Tam SJ(1), Watts RJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegeneration Labs, Department of Neuroscience, Genentech, Inc., South San
Francisco, California 94080, USA.

The vascular and nervous systems share a common necessity of circuit formation to
coordinate nutrient and information transfer, respectively. Shared developmental 
principles have evolved to orchestrate the formation of both the vascular and the
nervous systems. This evolution is highlighted by the identification of specific 
guidance cues that direct both systems to their target tissues. In addition to
sharing cellular and molecular signaling events during development, the vascular 
and nervous systems also form an intricate interface within the central nervous
system called the neurovascular unit. Understanding how the neurovascular unit
develops and functions, and more specifically how the blood-brain barrier within 
this unit is established, is of utmost importance. We explore the history, recent
discoveries, and unanswered questions surrounding the relationship between the
vascular and nervous systems with a focus on developmental signaling cues that
guide network formation and establish the interface between these two systems.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-152829 
PMID: 20367445  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:89-108. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153135.

Error correction, sensory prediction, and adaptation in motor control.

Shadmehr R(1), Smith MA, Krakauer JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. shadmehr@jhu.edu

Motor control is the study of how organisms make accurate goal-directed
movements. Here we consider two problems that the motor system must solve in
order to achieve such control. The first problem is that sensory feedback is
noisy and delayed, which can make movements inaccurate and unstable. The second
problem is that the relationship between a motor command and the movement it
produces is variable, as the body and the environment can both change. A solution
is to build adaptive internal models of the body and the world. The predictions
of these internal models, called forward models because they transform motor
commands into sensory consequences, can be used to both produce a lifetime of
calibrated movements, and to improve the ability of the sensory system to
estimate the state of the body and the world around it. Forward models are only
useful if they produce unbiased predictions. Evidence shows that forward models
remain calibrated through motor adaptation: learning driven by sensory prediction
errors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153135 
PMID: 20367317  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:349-78. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153204.

Mechanisms of synapse and dendrite maintenance and their disruption in
psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders.

Lin YC(1), Koleske AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry, Yale University, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520-8024, USA. yu-chih.lin@yale.edu

Emerging evidence indicates that once established, synapses and dendrites can be 
maintained for long periods, if not for the organism's entire lifetime. In
contrast to the wealth of knowledge regarding axon, dendrite, and synapse
development, we understand comparatively little about the cellular and molecular 
mechanisms that enable long-term synapse and dendrite maintenance. Here, we
review how the actin cytoskeleton and its regulators, adhesion receptors, and
scaffolding proteins mediate synapse and dendrite maintenance. We examine how
these mechanisms are reinforced by trophic signals passed between the pre- and
postsynaptic compartments. We also discuss how synapse and dendrite maintenance
mechanisms are compromised in psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153204 
PMCID: PMC3063389
PMID: 20367247  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:299-324. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153230.

The role of the human prefrontal cortex in social cognition and moral judgment.

Forbes CE(1), Grafman J.

Author information: 
(1)Cognitive Neuroscience Section, National Institute of Neurological Disorders
and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
forbesce@cc.nih.gov

Results from functional magnetic resonance imaging and lesion studies indicate
that the prefrontal cortex (PFC) is essential for successful navigation through a
complex social world inundated with intricate norms and moral values. This review
examines regions of the PFC that are critical for implicit and explicit social
cognitive and moral judgment processing. Considerable overlap between regions
active when individuals engage in social cognition or assess moral
appropriateness of behaviors is evident, underscoring the similarity between
social cognitive and moral judgment processes in general. Findings are
interpreted within the framework of structured event complex theory, providing a 
broad organizing perspective for how activity in PFC neural networks facilitates 
social cognition and moral judgment. We emphasize the dynamic flexibility in
neural circuits involved in both implicit and explicit processing and discuss the
likelihood that neural regions thought to uniquely underlie both processes
heavily interact in response to different contextual primes.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153230 
PMID: 20350167  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:269-98. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135409.

Neural mechanisms for interacting with a world full of action choices.

Cisek P(1), Kalaska JF.

Author information: 
(1)Groupe de Recherche sur le Système Nerveux Central (FRSQ), Département de
Physiologie, Université de Montréal, Montréal, Québec H3C3J7, Canada.
paul.cisek@umontreal.ca

The neural bases of behavior are often discussed in terms of perceptual,
cognitive, and motor stages, defined within an information processing framework
that was originally inspired by models of human abstract problem solving. Here,
we review a growing body of neurophysiological data that is difficult to
reconcile with this influential theoretical perspective. As an alternative
foundation for interpreting neural data, we consider frameworks borrowed from
ethology, which emphasize the kinds of real-time interactive behaviors that
animals have engaged in for millions of years. In particular, we discuss an
ethologically-inspired view of interactive behavior as simultaneous processes
that specify potential motor actions and select between them. We review how
recent neurophysiological data from diverse cortical and subcortical regions
appear more compatible with this parallel view than with the classical view of
serial information processing stages.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135409 
PMID: 20345247  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:245-67. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153248.

Wallerian degeneration, wld(s), and nmnat.

Coleman MP(1), Freeman MR.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Signaling, The Babraham Institute, Cambridge CB223AT, 
United Kingdom.

Traditionally, researchers have believed that axons are highly dependent on their
cell bodies for long-term survival. However, recent studies point to the
existence of axon-autonomous mechanism(s) that regulate rapid axon degeneration
after axotomy. Here, we review the cellular and molecular events that underlie
this process, termed Wallerian degeneration. We describe the biphasic nature of
axon degeneration after axotomy and our current understanding of how Wld(S)--an
extraordinary protein formed by fusing a Ube4b sequence to Nmnat1--acts to
protect severed axons. Interestingly, the neuroprotective effects of Wld(S) span 
all species tested, which suggests that there is an ancient, Wld(S)-sensitive
axon destruction program. Recent studies with Wld(S) also reveal that Wallerian
degeneration is genetically related to several dying back axonopathies, thus
arguing that Wallerian degeneration can serve as a useful model to understand,
and potentially treat, axon degeneration in diverse traumatic or disease
contexts.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153248 
PMID: 20345246  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:221-43. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153215.

Molecular and cellular mechanisms of learning disabilities: a focus on NF1.

Shilyansky C(1), Lee YS, Silva AJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Psychology, Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences,
Semel Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.

Neurofibromatosis Type I (NF1) is a single-gene disorder characterized by a high 
incidence of complex cognitive symptoms, including learning disabilities,
attention deficit disorder, executive function deficits, and motor coordination
problems. Because the underlying genetic cause of this disorder is known, study
of NF1 from a molecular, cellular, and systems perspective has provided
mechanistic insights into the etiology of higher-order cognitive symptoms
associated with the disease. In particular, studies of animal models of NF1
indicated that disruption of Ras regulation of inhibitory networks is critical to
the etiology of cognitive deficits associated with NF1. Animal models of Nf1
identified mechanisms and pathways that are required for cognition, and represent
an important complement to the complex neuropsychological literature on learning 
disabilities associated with this condition. Here, we review findings from NF1
animal models and human populations affected by NF1, highlighting areas of
potential translation and discussing the implications and limitations of
generalizing findings from this single-gene disease to idiopathic learning
disabilities.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153215 
PMCID: PMC3063104
PMID: 20345245  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:151-72. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153122.

Neurological channelopathies.

Kullmann DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurology, University College London, Queen Square, London
WC1N3BG, United Kingdom. d.kullmann@ion.ucl.ac.uk

Inherited ion channel mutations can affect the entire nervous system. Many cause 
paroxysmal disturbances of brain, spinal cord, peripheral nerve or skeletal
muscle function, with normal neurological development and function in between
attacks. To fully understand how mutations of ion channel genes cause disease, we
need to know the normal location and function of the channel subunit,
consequences of the mutation for biogenesis and biophysical properties, and
possible compensatory changes in other channels that contribute to cell or
circuit excitability. Animal models of monogenic channelopathies increasingly
help our understanding. An important challenge for the future is to determine how
more subtle derangements of ion channel function, which arise from the
interaction of genetic and environmental influences, contribute to common
paroxysmal disorders, including idiopathic epilepsy and migraine, that share
features with rare monogenic channelopathies.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153122 
PMID: 20331364  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:173-202. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135256.

Emotion, cognition, and mental state representation in amygdala and prefrontal
cortex.

Salzman CD(1), Fusi S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA.
cds2005@columbia.edu

Neuroscientists have often described cognition and emotion as separable processes
implemented by different regions of the brain, such as the amygdala for emotion
and the prefrontal cortex for cognition. In this framework, functional
interactions between the amygdala and prefrontal cortex mediate emotional
influences on cognitive processes such as decision-making, as well as the
cognitive regulation of emotion. However, neurons in these structures often have 
entangled representations, whereby single neurons encode multiple cognitive and
emotional variables. Here we review studies using anatomical, lesion, and
neurophysiological approaches to investigate the representation and utilization
of cognitive and emotional parameters. We propose that these mental state
parameters are inextricably linked and represented in dynamic neural networks
composed of interconnected prefrontal and limbic brain structures. Future
theoretical and experimental work is required to understand how these mental
state representations form and how shifts between mental states occur, a critical
feature of adaptive cognitive and emotional behavior.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135256 
PMCID: PMC3108339
PMID: 20331363  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:49-70. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153155.

Fly motion vision.

Borst A(1), Haag J, Reiff DF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Systems and Computational Neurobiology, Max-Planck-Institute of 
Neurobiology, Martinsried, Germany. borst@neuro.mpg.de

Fly motion vision and resultant compensatory optomotor responses are a classic
example for neural computation. Here we review our current understanding of
processing of optic flow as generated by an animal's self-motion. Optic flow
processing is accomplished in a series of steps: First, the time-varying
photoreceptor signals are fed into a two-dimensional array of Reichardt-type
elementary motion detectors (EMDs). EMDs compute, in parallel, local motion
vectors at each sampling point in space. Second, the output signals of many EMDs 
are spatially integrated on the dendrites of large-field tangential cells in the 
lobula plate. In the third step, tangential cells form extensive interactions
with each other, giving rise to their large and complex receptive fields. Thus,
tangential cells can act as matched filters tuned to optic flow during particular
flight maneuvers. They finally distribute their information onto postsynaptic
descending neurons, which either instruct the motor centers of the thoracic
ganglion for flight and locomotion control or act themselves as motor neurons
that control neck muscles for head movements.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153155 
PMID: 20225934  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:23-48. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153244.

The subplate and early cortical circuits.

Kanold PO(1), Luhmann HJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland 20742,
USA. pkanold@umd.edu

The developing mammalian cerebral cortex contains a distinct class of cells,
subplate neurons (SPns), that play an important role during early development.
SPns are the first neurons to be generated in the cerebral cortex, they reside in
the cortical white matter, and they are the first to mature physiologically. SPns
receive thalamic and neuromodulatory inputs and project into the developing
cortical plate, mostly to layer 4. Thus SPns form one of the first functional
cortical circuits and are required to relay early oscillatory activity into the
developing cortical plate. Pathophysiological impairment or removal of SPns
profoundly affects functional cortical development. SPn removal in visual cortex 
prevents the maturation of thalamocortical synapses, the maturation of inhibition
in layer 4, the development of orientation selective responses and the formation 
of ocular dominance columns. SPn removal also alters ocular dominance plasticity 
during the critical period. Therefore, SPns are a key regulator of cortical
development and plasticity. SPns are vulnerable to injury during prenatal stages 
and might provide a crucial link between brain injury in development and later
cognitive malfunction.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-153244 
PMID: 20201645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2010;33:1-21. doi: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-152823.

Attention, intention, and priority in the parietal lobe.

Bisley JW(1), Goldberg ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Jules Stein Eye Institute, David Geffen School 
of Medicine, and Department of Psychology and the Brain Research Institute,
University of California, Los Angeles, California 90095, USA.
jbisley@mednet.ucla.edu

For many years there has been a debate about the role of the parietal lobe in the
generation of behavior. Does it generate movement plans (intention) or choose
objects in the environment for further processing? To answer this, we focus on
the lateral intraparietal area (LIP), an area that has been shown to play
independent roles in target selection for saccades and the generation of visual
attention. Based on results from a variety of tasks, we propose that LIP acts as 
a priority map in which objects are represented by activity proportional to their
behavioral priority. We present evidence to show that the priority map combines
bottom-up inputs like a rapid visual response with an array of top-down signals
like a saccade plan. The spatial location representing the peak of the map is
used by the oculomotor system to target saccades and by the visual system to
guide visual attention.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-neuro-060909-152823 
PMCID: PMC3683564
PMID: 20192813  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:435-506. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135540.

Advances in light microscopy for neuroscience.

Wilt BA(1), Burns LD, Wei Ho ET, Ghosh KK, Mukamel EA, Schnitzer MJ.

Author information: 
(1)James H. Clark Center and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford
University, Stanford, California 94305, USA.

Since the work of Golgi and Cajal, light microscopy has remained a key tool for
neuroscientists to observe cellular properties. Ongoing advances have enabled new
experimental capabilities using light to inspect the nervous system across
multiple spatial scales, including ultrastructural scales finer than the optical 
diffraction limit. Other progress permits functional imaging at faster speeds, at
greater depths in brain tissue, and over larger tissue volumes than previously
possible. Portable, miniaturized fluorescence microscopes now allow brain imaging
in freely behaving mice. Complementary progress on animal preparations has
enabled imaging in head-restrained behaving animals, as well as time-lapse
microscopy studies in the brains of live subjects. Mouse genetic approaches
permit mosaic and inducible fluorescence-labeling strategies, whereas intrinsic
contrast mechanisms allow in vivo imaging of animals and humans without use of
exogenous markers. This review surveys such advances and highlights emerging
capabilities of particular interest to neuroscientists.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135540 
PMCID: PMC2820375
PMID: 19555292  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:413-34. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125606.

Cerebellum and nonmotor function.

Strick PL(1), Dum RP, Fiez JA.

Author information: 
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15261, USA.
strickp@pitt.edu

Does the cerebellum influence nonmotor behavior? Recent anatomical studies
demonstrate that the output of the cerebellum targets multiple nonmotor areas in 
the prefrontal and posterior parietal cortex, as well as the cortical motor
areas. The projections to different cortical areas originate from distinct output
channels within the cerebellar nuclei. The cerebral cortical area that is the
main target of each output channel is a major source of input to the channel.
Thus, a closed-loop circuit represents the major architectural unit of
cerebro-cerebellar interactions. The outputs of these loops provide the
cerebellum with the anatomical substrate to influence the control of movement and
cognition. Neuroimaging and neuropsychological data supply compelling support for
this view. The range of tasks associated with cerebellar activation is remarkable
and includes tasks designed to assess attention, executive control, language,
working memory, learning, pain, emotion, and addiction. These data, along with
the revelations about cerebro-cerebellar circuitry, provide a new framework for
exploring the contribution of the cerebellum to diverse aspects of behavior.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125606 
PMID: 19555291  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:267-87. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135535.

The neuropsychopharmacology of fronto-executive function: monoaminergic
modulation.

Robbins TW(1), Arnsten AF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Experimental Psychology, and Behavioral and Clinical
Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB23EB, UK.
twr2@cam.ac.uk

We review the modulatory effects of the catecholamine neurotransmitters
noradrenaline and dopamine on prefrontal cortical function. The effects of
pharmacologic manipulations of these systems, sometimes in comparison with the
indoleamine serotonin (5-HT), on performance on a variety of tasks that tap
working memory, attentional-set formation and shifting, reversal learning, and
response inhibition are compared in rodents, nonhuman primates, and humans using,
in a behavioral context, several techniques ranging from microiontophoresis and
single-cell electrophysiological recording to pharmacologic functional magnetic
resonance imaging. Dissociable effects of drugs and neurotoxins affecting these
monoamine systems suggest new ways of conceptualizing state-dependent
fronto-executive functions, with implications for understanding the molecular
genetic basis of mental illness and its treatment.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135535 
PMCID: PMC2863127
PMID: 19555290  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:149-84. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135600.

The glial nature of embryonic and adult neural stem cells.

Kriegstein A(1), Alvarez-Buylla A.

Author information: 
(1)The Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regeneration Medicine and Stem Cell
Research, Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco,
California 94143-0525, USA. kriegsteina@stemcell.ucsf.edu

Glial cells were long considered end products of neural differentiation,
specialized supportive cells with an origin very different from that of neurons. 
New studies have shown that some glial cells--radial glia (RG) in development and
specific subpopulations of astrocytes in adult mammals--function as primary
progenitors or neural stem cells (NSCs). This is a fundamental departure from
classical views separating neuronal and glial lineages early in development.
Direct visualization of the behavior of NSCs and lineage-tracing studies reveal
how neuronal lineages emerge. In development and in the adult brain, many neurons
and glial cells are not the direct progeny of NSCs, but instead originate from
transit amplifying, or intermediate, progenitor cells (IPCs). Within NSCs and
IPCs, genetic programs unfold for generating the extraordinary diversity of cell 
types in the central nervous system. The timing in development and location of
NSCs, a property tightly linked to their neuroepithelial origin, appear to be the
key determinants of the types of neurons generated. Identification of NSCs and
IPCs is critical to understand brain development and adult neurogenesis and to
develop new strategies for brain repair.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135600 
PMCID: PMC3086722
PMID: 19555289  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:347-81. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125536.

Establishment of axon-dendrite polarity in developing neurons.

Barnes AP(1), Polleux F.

Author information: 
(1)Pediatric Neuroscience Research Program, Department of Pediatrics, Oregon
Health and Science University, Portland, Oregon 97239-3098, USA.
barnesan@ohsu.edu

Neurons are among the most highly polarized cell types in the body, and the
polarization of axon and dendrites underlies the ability of neurons to integrate 
and transmit information in the brain. Significant progress has been made in the 
identification of the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the
establishment of neuronal polarity using primarily in vitro approaches such as
dissociated culture of rodent hippocampal and cortical neurons. This model has
led to the predominant view suggesting that neuronal polarization is specified
largely by stochastic, asymmetric activation of intracellular signaling pathways.
Recent evidence shows that extracellular cues can play an instructive role during
neuronal polarization in vitro and in vivo. In this review, we synthesize the
recent data supporting an integrative model whereby extracellular cues
orchestrate the intracellular signaling underlying the initial break of neuronal 
symmetry leading to axon-dendrite polarization.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125536 
PMCID: PMC3170863
PMID: 19400726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:57-74. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125618.

Neurocognitive mechanisms in depression: implications for treatment.

Clark L(1), Chamberlain SR, Sahakian BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute (BCNI), Department of
Experimental Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB23EB, United
Kingdom. lc260@cam.ac.uk

Mood disorders collectively account for a substantial proportion of disease
burden across the globe and have a devastating impact on quality of life and
occupational function. Here we evaluate recent progress in understanding the
neurocognitive mechanisms involved in the manifestation of mood disorders. We
focus on four domains of cognitive function that are altered in patients with
depression: executive control, memory, affective processing, and feedback
sensitivity. These alterations implicate a distributed neural circuit composed of
multiple sectors of the prefrontal cortex in interaction with subcortical regions
(striatum, thalamus) and temporal lobe structures (amygdala, hippocampus).
Affective processing and feedback sensitivity are highly sensitive to
serotonergic manipulation and are targeted by antidepressant treatments. By
drawing together cognitive, neuroanatomical, and pharmacological tiers of
research, we identify treatment targets and directions for future investigation
to identify people at risk, minimize relapse, and maximize long-term beneficial
outcomes for those suffering from depression.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125618 
PMID: 19400725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:1-32. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135531.

Neuropathic pain: a maladaptive response of the nervous system to damage.

Costigan M(1), Scholz J, Woolf CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Neural Plasticity Research Group, Department of Anesthesia and Critical Care, 
Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 
02129, USA. mcostigan@partners.org

Neuropathic pain is triggered by lesions to the somatosensory nervous system that
alter its structure and function so that pain occurs spontaneously and responses 
to noxious and innocuous stimuli are pathologically amplified. The pain is an
expression of maladaptive plasticity within the nociceptive system, a series of
changes that constitute a neural disease state. Multiple alterations distributed 
widely across the nervous system contribute to complex pain phenotypes. These
alterations include ectopic generation of action potentials, facilitation and
disinhibition of synaptic transmission, loss of synaptic connectivity and
formation of new synaptic circuits, and neuroimmune interactions. Although neural
lesions are necessary, they are not sufficient to generate neuropathic pain;
genetic polymorphisms, gender, and age all influence the risk of developing
persistent pain. Treatment needs to move from merely suppressing symptoms to a
disease-modifying strategy aimed at both preventing maladaptive plasticity and
reducing intrinsic risk.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135531 
PMCID: PMC2768555
PMID: 19400724  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:209-24. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135603.

Neuronal gamma-band synchronization as a fundamental process in cortical
computation.

Fries P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University
Nijmegen, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. pascal.fries@donders.ru.nl

Neuronal gamma-band synchronization is found in many cortical areas, is induced
by different stimuli or tasks, and is related to several cognitive capacities.
Thus, it appears as if many different gamma-band synchronization phenomena
subserve many different functions. I argue that gamma-band synchronization is a
fundamental process that subserves an elemental operation of cortical
computation. Cortical computation unfolds in the interplay between neuronal
dynamics and structural neuronal connectivity. A core motif of neuronal
connectivity is convergence, which brings about both selectivity and invariance
of neuronal responses. However, those core functions can be achieved
simultaneously only if converging neuronal inputs are functionally segmented and 
if only one segment is selected at a time. This segmentation and selection can be
elegantly achieved if structural connectivity interacts with neuronal
synchronization. I propose that this process is at least one of the fundamental
functions of gamma-band synchronization, which then subserves numerous higher
cognitive functions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135603 
PMID: 19400723  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:95-126. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135607.

Serotonin in affective control.

Dayan P(1), Huys QJ.

Author information: 
(1)Gatsby Computational Neuroscience Unit, University College London, London
WC1N3AR, UK. dayan@gatsby.ucl.ac.uk

Serotonin is a neuromodulator that is extensively entangled in fundamental
aspects of brain function and behavior. We present a computational view of its
involvement in the control of appetitively and aversively motivated actions. We
first describe a range of its effects in invertebrates, endowing specific
structurally fixed networks with plasticity at multiple spatial and temporal
scales. We then consider its rather widespread distribution in the mammalian
brain. We argue that this is associated with a more unified representational and 
functional role in aversive processing that is amenable to computational analyses
with the kinds of reinforcement learning techniques that have helped elucidate
dopamine's role in appetitive behavior. Finally, we suggest that it is only a
partial reflection of dopamine because of essential asymmetries between the
natural statistics of rewards and punishments.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135607 
PMID: 19400722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:33-55. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135516.

Synaptic mechanisms for plasticity in neocortex.

Feldman DE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, and Helen Wills Neuroscience
Institute, University of California, Berkeley, USA. dfeldman@berkeley.edu

Sensory experience and learning alter sensory representations in cerebral cortex.
The synaptic mechanisms underlying sensory cortical plasticity have long been
sought. Recent work indicates that long-term cortical plasticity is a complex,
multicomponent process involving multiple synaptic and cellular mechanisms.
Sensory use, disuse, and training drive long-term potentiation and depression
(LTP and LTD), homeostatic synaptic plasticity and plasticity of intrinsic
excitability, and structural changes including formation, removal, and
morphological remodeling of cortical synapses and dendritic spines. Both
excitatory and inhibitory circuits are strongly regulated by experience. This
review summarizes these findings and proposes that these mechanisms map onto
specific functional components of plasticity, which occur in common across the
primary somatosensory, visual, and auditory cortices.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135516 
PMCID: PMC3071739
PMID: 19400721  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:225-47. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135335.

The neurobiology of individual differences in complex behavioral traits.

Hariri AR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Institute for Genome Sciences and
Policy, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27708, USA. ah154@duke.edu

Neuroimaging, especially BOLD fMRI, has begun to identify how variability in
brain function contributes to individual differences in complex behavioral
traits. In parallel, pharmacological fMRI and multimodal PET/fMRI are identifying
how variability in molecular signaling pathways influences individual differences
in brain function. Against this background, functional genetic polymorphisms are 
being utilized to understand the origins of variability in signaling pathways as 
well as to model efficiently how such emergent variability impacts behaviorally
relevant brain function. This article provides an overview of a research strategy
seeking to integrate these complementary technologies and utilizes existing
empirical data to illustrate its effectiveness in illuminating the neurobiology
of individual differences in complex behavioral traits. The article also
discusses how such efforts can contribute to the identification of predictive
markers that interact with environmental factors to precipitate disease and to
develop more effective and individually tailored treatment regimes.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135335 
PMCID: PMC2755193
PMID: 19400720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:249-66. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135241.

The science of neural interface systems.

Hatsopoulos NG(1), Donoghue JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, and Committees on Computational 
Neuroscience and Neurobiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637,
USA. nicho@uchicago.edu

The ultimate goal of neural interface research is to create links between the
nervous system and the outside world either by stimulating or by recording from
neural tissue to treat or assist people with sensory, motor, or other
disabilities of neural function. Although electrical stimulation systems have
already reached widespread clinical application, neural interfaces that record
neural signals to decipher movement intentions are only now beginning to develop 
into clinically viable systems to help paralyzed people. We begin by reviewing
state-of-the-art research and early-stage clinical recording systems and focus on
systems that record single-unit action potentials. We then address the potential 
for neural interface research to enhance basic scientific understanding of brain 
function by offering unique insights in neural coding and representation,
plasticity, brain-behavior relations, and the neurobiology of disease. Finally,
we discuss technical and scientific challenges faced by these systems before they
are widely adopted by severely motor-disabled patients.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135241 
PMCID: PMC2921719
PMID: 19400719  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:75-94. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135735.

Using diffusion imaging to study human connectional anatomy.

Johansen-Berg H(1), Rushworth MF.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional MRI of the Brain, University of Oxford, Oxford OX39DU,
United Kingdom. heidi@fmrib.ox.ac.uk

Diffusion imaging can be used to estimate the routes taken by fiber pathways
connecting different regions of the living brain. This approach has already
supplied novel insights into in vivo human brain anatomy. For example, by
detecting where connection patterns change, one can define anatomical borders
between cortical regions or subcortical nuclei in the living human brain for the 
first time. Because diffusion tractography is a relatively new technique,
however, it is important to assess its validity critically. We discuss the degree
to which diffusion tractography meets the requirements of a technique to assess
structural connectivity and how its results compare to those from the
gold-standard tract tracing methods in nonhuman animals. We conclude that
although tractography offers novel opportunities it also raises significant
challenges to be addressed by further validation studies to define precisely the 
limitations and scope of this exciting new technique.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135735 
PMID: 19400718  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:127-47. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135422.

Physiology and pharmacology of striatal neurons.

Kreitzer AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Gladstone Institute of Neurological Disease and Departments of Physiology and 
Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, California 94158, USA.
akreitzer@gladstone.ucsf.edu

The basal ganglia occupy the core of the forebrain and consist of evolutionarily 
conserved motor nuclei that form recurrent circuits critical for motivation and
motor planning. The striatum is the main input nucleus of the basal ganglia and a
key neural substrate for procedural learning and memory. The vast majority of
striatal neurons are spiny GABAergic projection neurons, which exhibit slow but
temporally precise spiking in vivo. Contributing to this precision are several
different types of interneurons that constitute only a small fraction of total
neuron number but play a critical role in regulating striatal output. This review
examines the cellular physiology and modulation of striatal neurons that give
rise to their unique properties and function.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135422 
PMID: 19400717  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:383-412. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135614.

Axon growth and guidance: receptor regulation and signal transduction.

O'Donnell M(1), Chance RK, Bashaw GJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. odonnel2@mail.med.upenn.edu

The development of precise connectivity patterns during the establishment of the 
nervous system depends on the regulated action of diverse, conserved families of 
guidance cues and their neuronal receptors. Determining how these signaling
pathways function to regulate axon growth and guidance is fundamentally important
to understanding wiring specificity in the nervous system and will undoubtedly
shed light on many neural developmental disorders. Considerable progress has been
made in defining the mechanisms that regulate the correct spatial and temporal
distribution of guidance receptors and how these receptors in turn signal to the 
growth cone cytoskeleton to control steering decisions. This review focuses on
recent advances in our understanding of the mechanisms mediating growth cone
guidance with a particular emphasis on the control of guidance receptor
regulation and signaling.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135614 
PMCID: PMC4765433
PMID: 19400716  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:185-208. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135550.

Representation of number in the brain.

Nieder A(1), Dehaene S.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Animal Physiology, University of Tübingen, Auf der Morgenstelle 
28, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. andreas.nieder@uni-tuebingen.de

Number symbols have allowed humans to develop superior mathematical skills that
are a hallmark of technologically advanced cultures. Findings in animal
cognition, developmental psychology, and anthropology indicate that these
numerical skills are rooted in nonlinguistic biological primitives. Recent
studies in human and nonhuman primates using a broad range of methodologies
provide evidence that numerical information is represented and processed by
regions of the prefrontal and posterior parietal lobes, with the intraparietal
sulcus as a key node for the representation of the semantic aspect of numerical
quantity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135550 
PMID: 19400715  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:289-313. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135620.

The influence of stress hormones on fear circuitry.

Rodrigues SM(1), LeDoux JE, Sapolsky RM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Personality and Social Research, University of California,
Berkeley, California 94720, USA. sarina.rodrigues@oregonstate.edu

Fear arousal, initiated by an environmental threat, leads to activation of the
stress response, a state of alarm that promotes an array of autonomic and
endocrine changes designed to aid self-preservation. The stress response includes
the release of glucocorticoids from the adrenal cortex and catecholamines from
the adrenal medulla and sympathetic nerves. These stress hormones, in turn,
provide feedback to the brain and influence neural structures that control
emotion and cognition. To illustrate this influence, we focus on how it impacts
fear conditioning, a behavioral paradigm widely used to study the neural
mechanisms underlying the acquisition, expression, consolidation,
reconsolidation, and extinction of emotional memories. We also discuss how stress
and the endocrine mediators of the stress response influence the morphological
and electrophysiological properties of neurons in brain areas that are crucial
for fear-conditioning processes, including the amygdala, hippocampus, and
prefrontal cortex. The information in this review illuminates the behavioral and 
cellular events that underlie the feedforward and feedback networks that mediate 
states of fear and stress and their interaction in the brain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135620 
PMID: 19400714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2009;32:315-46. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135431.

The primate cortical auditory system and neural representation of conspecific
vocalizations.

Romanski LM(1), Averbeck BB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, University of Rochester School of
Medicine, Rochester, New York 14642, USA. Liz_romanski@urmc.rochester.edu

Over the past decade, renewed interest in the auditory system has resulted in a
surge of anatomical and physiological research in the primate auditory cortex and
its targets. Anatomical studies have delineated multiple areas in and around
primary auditory cortex and demonstrated connectivity among these areas, as well 
as between these areas and the rest of the cortex, including prefrontal cortex.
Physiological recordings of auditory neurons have found that species-specific
vocalizations are useful in probing the selectivity and potential functions of
acoustic neurons. A number of cortical regions contain neurons that are robustly 
responsive to vocalizations, and some auditory responsive neurons show more
selectivity for vocalizations than for other complex sounds. Demonstration of
selectivity for vocalizations has prompted the question of which features are
encoded by higher-order auditory neurons. Results based on detailed studies of
the structure of these vocalizations, as well as the tuning and
information-coding properties of neurons sensitive to these vocalizations, have
begun to provide answers to this question. In future studies, these and other
methods may help to define the way in which cells, ensembles, and brain regions
process communication sounds. Moreover, the discovery that several nonprimary
auditory cortical regions may be multisensory and responsive to vocalizations
with corresponding facial gestures may change the way in which we view the
processing of communication information by the auditory system.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.051508.135431 
PMCID: PMC2767298
PMID: 19400713  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:563-90. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125631.

Signaling mechanisms linking neuronal activity to gene expression and plasticity 
of the nervous system.

Flavell SW(1), Greenberg ME.

Author information: 
(1)F.M. Kirby Neurobiology Center, Children's Hospital Boston, and Departments of
Neurology and Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA. Flavell@fas.harvard.edu

Sensory experience and the resulting synaptic activity within the brain are
critical for the proper development of neural circuits. Experience-driven
synaptic activity causes membrane depolarization and calcium influx into select
neurons within a neural circuit, which in turn trigger a wide variety of cellular
changes that alter the synaptic connectivity within the neural circuit. One way
in which calcium influx leads to the remodeling of synapses made by neurons is
through the activation of new gene transcription. Recent studies have identified 
many of the signaling pathways that link neuronal activity to transcription,
revealing both the transcription factors that mediate this process and the
neuronal activity-regulated genes. These studies indicate that neuronal activity 
regulates a complex program of gene expression involved in many aspects of
neuronal development, including dendritic branching, synapse maturation, and
synapse elimination. Genetic mutations in several key regulators of
activity-dependent transcription give rise to neurological disorders in humans,
suggesting that future studies of this gene expression program will likely
provide insight into the mechanisms by which the disruption of proper synapse
development can give rise to a variety of neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125631 
PMCID: PMC2728073
PMID: 18558867  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:535-61. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094309.

Axon-glial signaling and the glial support of axon function.

Nave KA(1), Trapp BD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurogenetics, Max Planck Institute of Experimental Medicine,
D-37075 Göttingen, Germany. nave@em.mpg.de

Oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells are highly specialized glial cells that wrap
axons with a multilayered myelin membrane for rapid impulse conduction.
Investigators have recently identified axonal signals that recruit myelin-forming
Schwann cells from an alternate fate of simple axonal engulfment. This is the
evolutionary oldest form of axon-glia interaction, and its function is unknown.
Recent observations suggest that oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells not only
myelinate axons but also maintain their long-term functional integrity. Mutations
in the mouse reveal that axonal support by oligodendrocytes is independent of
myelin assembly. The underlying mechanisms are still poorly understood; we do
know that to maintain axonal integrity, mammalian myelin-forming cells require
the expression of some glia-specific proteins, including CNP, PLP, and MAG, as
well as intact peroxisomes, none of which is necessary for myelin assembly. Loss 
of glial support causes progressive axon degeneration and possibly local
inflammation, both of which are likely to contribute to a variety of neuronal
diseases in the central and peripheral nervous systems.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094309 
PMID: 18558866  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:511-34. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094321.

Neural substrates of language acquisition.

Kuhl P(1), Rivera-Gaxiola M.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Learning and Brain Sciences, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington 98195, USA. pkkuhl@u.washington.edu

Infants learn language(s) with apparent ease, and the tools of modern
neuroscience are providing valuable information about the mechanisms that
underlie this capacity. Noninvasive, safe brain technologies have now been proven
feasible for use with children starting at birth. The past decade has produced an
explosion in neuroscience research examining young children's processing of
language at the phonetic, word, and sentence levels. At all levels of language,
the neural signatures of learning can be documented at remarkably early points in
development. Individual continuity in linguistic development from infants'
earliest responses to phonemes is reflected in infants' language abilities in the
second and third year of life, a finding with theoretical and clinical
implications. Developmental neuroscience studies using language are beginning to 
answer questions about the origins of humans' language faculty.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094321 
PMID: 18558865  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


181. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:479-509. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125533.

Mechanisms underlying development of visual maps and receptive fields.

Huberman AD(1), Feller MB, Chapman B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto,
California 94305, USA. adh1@stanford.edu

Patterns of synaptic connections in the visual system are remarkably precise.
These connections dictate the receptive field properties of individual visual
neurons and ultimately determine the quality of visual perception. Spontaneous
neural activity is necessary for the development of various receptive field
properties and visual feature maps. In recent years, attention has shifted to
understanding the mechanisms by which spontaneous activity in the developing
retina, lateral geniculate nucleus, and visual cortex instruct the axonal and
dendritic refinements that give rise to orderly connections in the visual system.
Axon guidance cues and a growing list of other molecules, including immune system
factors, have also recently been implicated in visual circuit wiring. A major
goal now is to determine how these molecules cooperate with spontaneous and
visually evoked activity to give rise to the circuits underlying precise
receptive field tuning and orderly visual maps.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125533 
PMCID: PMC2655105
PMID: 18558864  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:439-77. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125620.

The prion's elusive reason for being.

Aguzzi A(1), Baumann F, Bremer J.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuropathology, University of Zurich, CH-8091 Zurich,
Switzerland. Adriano.Aguzzi@usz.ch

The protein-only hypothesis posits that the infectious agent causing
transmissible spongiform encephalopathies consists of protein and lacks any
informational nucleic acids. This agent, termed prion by Stanley Prusiner, is
thought to consist partly of PrP(Sc), a conformational isoform of a normal
cellular protein termed PrP(C). Scientists and lay persons have been fascinated
by the prion concept, and it has been subjected to passionate critique and
intense experimental scrutiny. As a result, PrP(C) and its isoforms rank among
the most intensively studied proteins encoded by the mammalian genome. Despite
all this research, both the physiological function of PrP(C) and the molecular
pathways leading to neurodegeneration in prion disease remain unknown. Here we
review the salient traits of those diseases ascribed to improper behavior of the 
prion protein and highlight how the physiological functions of PrP(C) may help
explain the toxic phenotypes observed in prion disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125620 
PMID: 18558863  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:411-37. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094238.

Mechanisms of face perception.

Tsao DY(1), Livingstone MS.

Author information: 
(1)Centers for Advanced Imaging and Cognitive Sciences, Bremen University,
D-28334 Bremen, Germany. doris@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu

Faces are among the most informative stimuli we ever perceive: Even a
split-second glimpse of a person's face tells us his identity, sex, mood, age,
race, and direction of attention. The specialness of face processing is
acknowledged in the artificial vision community, where contests for
face-recognition algorithms abound. Neurological evidence strongly implicates a
dedicated machinery for face processing in the human brain to explain the double 
dissociability of face- and object-recognition deficits. Furthermore, recent
evidence shows that macaques too have specialized neural machinery for processing
faces. Here we propose a unifying hypothesis, deduced from computational,
neurological, fMRI, and single-unit experiments: that what makes face processing 
special is that it is gated by an obligatory detection process. We clarify this
idea in concrete algorithmic terms and show how it can explain a variety of
phenomena associated with face processing.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094238 
PMCID: PMC2629401
PMID: 18558862  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:389-410. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112953.

Mechanisms of self-motion perception.

Britten KH(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience and Department of Neurobiology, Physiology, and
Behavior, University of California, Davis, California 95616, USA.
khbritten@ucdavis.edu

Guiding effective movement through the environment is one of the visual system's 
most important functions. The pattern of motion that we see allows us to estimate
our heading accurately in a variety of environments, despite the added difficulty
imposed by our own eye and head movements. The cortical substrates for heading
perception include the medial superior temporal area (MST) and the ventral
intraparietal area (VIP). This review discusses recent work on these two areas in
the context of behavioral observations that establish the important problems the 
visual system must solve. Signals relevant to self motion are both more
widespread than heretofore recognized and also more complex because they are
multiplexed with other sensory signals, such as vestibular, auditory, and tactile
information. The review presents recent work as a background to highlight
important problems that remain unsolved.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112953 
PMID: 18558861  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:359-87. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112851.

Habits, rituals, and the evaluative brain.

Graybiel AM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Science and the McGovern Institute for Brain
Research, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, 
USA. Graybiel@mit.edu

Scientists in many different fields have been attracted to the study of habits
because of the power habits have over behavior and because they invoke a
dichotomy between the conscious, voluntary control over behavior, considered the 
essence of higher-order deliberative behavioral control, and lower-order
behavioral control that is scarcely available to consciousness. A broad spectrum 
of behavioral routines and rituals can become habitual and stereotyped through
learning. Others have a strong innate basis. Repetitive behaviors can also appear
as cardinal symptoms in a broad range of neurological and neuropsychiatric
illness and in addictive states. This review suggests that many of these
behaviors could emerge as a result of experience-dependent plasticity in basal
ganglia-based circuits that can influence not only overt behaviors but also
cognitive activity. Culturally based rituals may reflect privileged interactions 
between the basal ganglia and cortically based circuits that influence social,
emotional, and action functions of the brain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112851 
PMID: 18558860  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:339-58. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125649.

Wnt signaling in neural circuit assembly.

Salinas PC(1), Zou Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology, University College London,
London, WC1E 6BT, United Kingdom. p.salinas@ucl.ac.uk

The Wnt family of secreted proteins plays a crucial role in nervous system
wiring. Wnts regulate neuronal positioning, polarization, axon and dendrite
development, and synaptogenesis. These diverse roles of Wnt proteins are due not 
only to the large numbers of Wnt ligands and receptors but also to their ability 
to signal through distinct signaling pathways in different cell types and
developmental contexts. Studies on Wnts have shed new light on novel molecular
mechanisms that control the development of complex neuronal connections. This
review discusses recent advances on how Wnt signaling influences different
aspects of neuronal circuit assembly through changes in gene expression and/or
cytoskeletal modulation.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125649 
PMID: 18558859  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:317-38. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125627.

Brain circuits for the internal monitoring of movements.

Sommer MA(1), Wurtz RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, and 
the Center for Neuroscience, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
15260, USA. masommer@pitt.edu

Each movement we make activates our own sensory receptors, thus causing a problem
for the brain: the spurious, movement-related sensations must be discriminated
from the sensory inputs that really matter, those representing our environment.
Here we consider circuits for solving this problem in the primate brain. Such
circuits convey a copy of each motor command, known as a corollary discharge
(CD), to brain regions that use sensory input. In the visual system, CD signals
may help to produce a stable visual percept from the jumpy images resulting from 
our rapid eye movements. A candidate pathway for providing CD for vision ascends 
from the superior colliculus to the frontal cortex in the primate brain. This
circuit conveys warning signals about impending eye movements that are used for
planning subsequent movements and analyzing the visual world. Identifying this
circuit has provided a model for studying CD in other primate sensory systems and
may lead to a better understanding of motor and mental disorders.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125627 
PMCID: PMC2813694
PMID: 18558858  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:295-315. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125609.

Retinal axon growth at the optic chiasm: to cross or not to cross.

Petros TJ(1), Rebsam A, Mason CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Department of Neuroscience, Columbia
University, College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York 10032, USA.
tjp2001@columbia.edu

At the optic chiasm, retinal ganglion cell axons from each eye converge and
segregate into crossed and uncrossed projections, a pattern critical for
binocular vision. Here, we review recent findings on optic chiasm development,
highlighting the specific transcription factors and guidance cues that implement 
retinal axon divergence into crossed and uncrossed pathways. Although mechanisms 
underlying the formation of the uncrossed projection have been identified, the
means by which retinal axons are guided across the midline are still unclear. In 
addition to directives provided by transcription factors and receptors in the
retina, gene expression in the ventral diencephalon influences chiasm formation. 
Throughout this review, we compare guidance mechanisms at the optic chiasm with
those in other midline models and highlight unanswered questions both for retinal
axon growth and axon guidance in general.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125609 
PMID: 18558857  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:271-94. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125552.

Multifunctional pattern-generating circuits.

Briggman KL(1), Kristan WB.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Optics, Max Planck Institute for Medical Research,
Heidelberg, 69120 Germany. briggman@mpimf-heidelberg.mpg.de

The ability of distinct anatomical circuits to generate multiple behavioral
patterns is widespread among vertebrate and invertebrate species. These
multifunctional neuronal circuits are the result of multistable neural dynamics
and modular organization. The evidence suggests multifunctional circuits can be
classified by distinct architectures, yet the activity patterns of individual
neurons involved in more than one behavior can vary dramatically. Several
mechanisms, including sensory input, the parallel activity of projection neurons,
neuromodulation, and biomechanics, are responsible for the switching between
patterns. Recent advances in both analytical and experimental tools have aided
the study of these complex circuits.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125552 
PMID: 18558856  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:247-69. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094313.

Multiple sclerosis: an immune or neurodegenerative disorder?

Trapp BD(1), Nave KA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic,
Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA. trappb@ccf.org

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an inflammatory-mediated demyelinating disease of the 
human central nervous system. The clinical disease course is variable, usually
starts with reversible episodes of neurological disability in the third or fourth
decade of life, and transforms into a disease of continuous and irreversible
neurological decline by the sixth or seventh decade. We review data that support 
neurodegeneration as the major cause of irreversible neurological disability in
MS patients. We question whether inflammatory demyelination is primary or
secondary in the disease process and discuss the challenges of elucidating the
cause of MS and developing therapies that will delay or prevent the irreversible 
and progressive neurological decline that most MS patients endure.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094313 
PMID: 18558855  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:219-45. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125642.

Task set and prefrontal cortex.

Sakai K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Neuroscience, Graduate School of Medicine, The
University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033, Japan.
ksakai@m.u-tokyo.ac.jp

A task set is a configuration of cognitive processes that is actively maintained 
for subsequent task performance. Single-unit and brain-imaging studies have
identified the neural correlates for task sets in the prefrontal cortex. Here I
examine whether the neural data obtained thus far are sufficient to explain the
behaviors that have been illustrated within the conceptual framework of task
sets. I first discuss the selectivity of neural activity in representing a
specific task. I then discuss the competitions between neural representations of 
task sets during task switch. Finally I discuss how, in neural terms, a task set 
is implemented to facilitate task performance. The processes of representing,
updating, and implementing task sets occur in parallel at multiple levels of
brain organization. Neural accounts of task sets demonstrate that the brain
determines our thoughts and behaviors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125642 
PMID: 18558854  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:195-218. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125547.

Descending pathways in motor control.

Lemon RN(1).

Author information: 
(1)Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, Institute of
Neurology, University College London, London, WC1N 3BG, United Kingdom.
rlemon@ion.ucl.ac.uk

Each of the descending pathways involved in motor control has a number of
anatomical, molecular, pharmacological, and neuroinformatic characteristics. They
are differentially involved in motor control, a process that results from
operations involving the entire motor network rather than from the brain
commanding the spinal cord. A given pathway can have many functional roles. This 
review explores to what extent descending pathways are highly conserved across
species and concludes that there are actually rather widespread species
differences, for example, in the transmission of information from the
corticospinal tract to upper limb motoneurons. The significance of direct,
cortico-motoneuronal (CM) connections, which were discovered a little more than
50 years ago, is reassessed. I conclude that although these connections operate
in parallel with other less direct linkages to motoneurons, CM influence is
significant and may subserve some special functions including adaptive motor
behaviors involving the distal extremities.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125547 
PMID: 18558853  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:151-73. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.061307.090711.

Role of axonal transport in neurodegenerative diseases.

De Vos KJ(1), Grierson AJ, Ackerley S, Miller CC.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Center for Neurodegeneration Research, Institute of Psychiatry, King's
College, London SE5 8AF, United Kingdom. Kurt.DeVos@iop.kcl.ac.uk

Many major human neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease,
Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), display axonal
pathologies including abnormal accumulations of proteins and organelles. Such
pathologies highlight damage to the axon as part of the pathogenic process and,
in particular, damage to transport of cargoes through axons. Indeed, we now know 
that disruption of axonal transport is an early and perhaps causative event in
many of these diseases. Here, we review the role of axonal transport in
neurodegenerative disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.061307.090711 
PMID: 18558852  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:175-93. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125529.

Active and passive immunotherapy for neurodegenerative disorders.

Brody DL(1), Holtzman DM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Developmental Biology, Alzheimer's Disease Research
Center, and Hope Center for Neurological Disorders, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. brodyd@neuro.wustl.edu

Immunotherapeutic strategies to combat neurodegenerative disorders have
galvanized the scientific community since the first dramatic successes in mouse
models recreating aspects of Alzheimer disease (AD) were reported. However,
initial human trials of active amyloid-beta (Abeta) vaccination were halted early
because of a serious safety issue: meningoencephalitis in 6% of subjects.
Nonetheless, some encouraging preliminary data were obtained, and rapid progress 
has been made toward developing alternative, possibly safer active and passive
immunotherapeutic approaches for several neurodegenerative conditions. Many of
these are currently in human trials for AD. Despite these advances, our
understanding of the essential mechanisms underlying the effects seen in
preclinical models and human subjects is still incomplete. Antibody-induced
phagocytosis of pathological protein deposits, direct antibody-mediated
disruption of aggregates, neutralization of toxic soluble proteins, a shift in
equilibrium toward efflux of specific proteins from the brain, cell-mediated
immune responses, and other mechanisms may all play roles depending on the
specific immunotherapeutic scenario.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125529 
PMCID: PMC2561172
PMID: 18352830  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:125-50. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125555.

Vestibular system: the many facets of a multimodal sense.

Angelaki DE(1), Cullen KE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. angelaki@wustl.edu

Elegant sensory structures in the inner ear have evolved to measure head motion. 
These vestibular receptors consist of highly conserved semicircular canals and
otolith organs. Unlike other senses, vestibular information in the central
nervous system becomes immediately multisensory and multimodal. There is no
overt, readily recognizable conscious sensation from these organs, yet vestibular
signals contribute to a surprising range of brain functions, from the most
automatic reflexes to spatial perception and motor coordination. Critical to
these diverse, multimodal functions are multiple computationally intriguing
levels of processing. For example, the need for multisensory integration
necessitates vestibular representations in multiple reference frames.
Proprioceptive-vestibular interactions, coupled with corollary discharge of a
motor plan, allow the brain to distinguish actively generated from passive head
movements. Finally, nonlinear interactions between otolith and canal signals
allow the vestibular system to function as an inertial sensor and contribute
critically to both navigation and spatial orientation.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125555 
PMID: 18338968  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:91-123. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094302.

Mitochondrial disorders in the nervous system.

DiMauro S(1), Schon EA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY
10032, USA. sd12@columbia.edu

Mitochondrial diseases (encephalomyopathies) have traditionally been ascribed to 
defects of the respiratory chain, which has helped researchers explain their
genetic and clinical complexity. However, other mitochondrial functions are
greatly important for the nervous system, including protein importation,
organellar dynamics, and programmed cell death. Defects in genes controlling
these functions are attracting increasing attention as causes not only of
neurological (and psychiatric) diseases but also of age-related neurodegenerative
disorders. After discussing some pathogenic conundrums regarding the neurological
manifestations of the respiratory chain defects, we review altered mitochondrial 
dynamics in the etiology of specific neurological diseases and in the
physiopathology of more common neurodegenerative disorders.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094302 
PMID: 18333761  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:47-67. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125646.

Balancing structure and function at hippocampal dendritic spines.

Bourne JN(1), Harris KM.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Learning and Memory, Department of Neurobiology, University of
Texas, Austin, Texas 78712-0805, USA. jbourne@mail.clm.utexas.edu

Dendritic spines are the primary recipients of excitatory input in the central
nervous system. They provide biochemical compartments that locally control the
signaling mechanisms at individual synapses. Hippocampal spines show structural
plasticity as the basis for the physiological changes in synaptic efficacy that
underlie learning and memory. Spine structure is regulated by molecular
mechanisms that are fine-tuned and adjusted according to developmental age, level
and direction of synaptic activity, specific brain region, and exact behavioral
or experimental conditions. Reciprocal changes between the structure and function
of spines impact both local and global integration of signals within dendrites.
Advances in imaging and computing technologies may provide the resources needed
to reconstruct entire neural circuits. Key to this endeavor is having sufficient 
resolution to determine the extrinsic factors (such as perisynaptic astroglia)
and the intrinsic factors (such as core subcellular organelles) that are required
to build and maintain synapses.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125646 
PMCID: PMC2561948
PMID: 18284372  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:69-89. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.061307.090723.

Place cells, grid cells, and the brain's spatial representation system.

Moser EI(1), Kropff E, Moser MB.

Author information: 
(1)Kavli Institute for Systems Neuroscience and Centre for the Biology of Memory,
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 7489 Trondheim, Norway.
edvard.moser@cbm.ntnu.no

More than three decades of research have demonstrated a role for hippocampal
place cells in representation of the spatial environment in the brain. New
studies have shown that place cells are part of a broader circuit for dynamic
representation of self-location. A key component of this network is the
entorhinal grid cells, which, by virtue of their tessellating firing fields, may 
provide the elements of a path integration-based neural map. Here we review how
place cells and grid cells may form the basis for quantitative spatiotemporal
representation of places, routes, and associated experiences during behavior and 
in memory. Because these cell types have some of the most conspicuous behavioral 
correlates among neurons in nonsensory cortical systems, and because their
spatial firing structure reflects computations internally in the system, studies 
of entorhinal-hippocampal representations may offer considerable insight into
general principles of cortical network dynamics.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.061307.090723 
PMID: 18284371  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:1-24. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094225.

Cerebellum-like structures and their implications for cerebellar function.

Bell CC(1), Han V, Sawtell NB.

Author information: 
(1)Neurological Sciences Institute, Oregon Health and Science University,
Beaverton, Oregon 97006, USA. bellc@ohsu.edu

The nervous systems of most vertebrates include both the cerebellum and
structures that are architecturally similar to the cerebellum. The
cerebellum-like structures are sensory structures that receive input from the
periphery in their deep layers and parallel fiber input in their molecular
layers. This review describes these cerebellum-like structures and compares them 
with the cerebellum itself. The cerebellum-like structures in three groups of
fish act as adaptive sensory processors in which the signals conveyed by parallel
fibers in the molecular layer predict the patterns of sensory input to the deep
layers through a process of associative synaptic plasticity. Similarities between
the cerebellum-like structures and the cerebellum suggest that the cerebellum may
also generate predictions about expected sensory inputs or states of the system, 
as suggested also by clinical, experimental, and theoretical studies of the
cerebellum. Understanding the process of predicting sensory patterns in
cerebellum-like structures may therefore be a source of insight into cerebellar
function.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094225 
PMID: 18275284  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2008;31:25-46. doi: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125639.

Spike timing-dependent plasticity: a Hebbian learning rule.

Caporale N(1), Dan Y.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neurobiology, Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, and Helen 
Wills Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA. caporale@socrates.berkeley.edu

Spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) as a Hebbian synaptic learning rule has 
been demonstrated in various neural circuits over a wide spectrum of species,
from insects to humans. The dependence of synaptic modification on the order of
pre- and postsynaptic spiking within a critical window of tens of milliseconds
has profound functional implications. Over the past decade, significant progress 
has been made in understanding the cellular mechanisms of STDP at both excitatory
and inhibitory synapses and of the associated changes in neuronal excitability
and synaptic integration. Beyond the basic asymmetric window, recent studies have
also revealed several layers of complexity in STDP, including its dependence on
dendritic location, the nonlinear integration of synaptic modification induced by
complex spike trains, and the modulation of STDP by inhibitory and
neuromodulatory inputs. Finally, the functional consequences of STDP have been
examined directly in an increasing number of neural circuits in vivo.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.31.060407.125639 
PMID: 18275283  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:535-74.

The neural basis of decision making.

Gold JI(1), Shadlen MN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104-6074, USA. jigold@mail.med.upenn.edu

The study of decision making spans such varied fields as neuroscience,
psychology, economics, statistics, political science, and computer science.
Despite this diversity of applications, most decisions share common elements
including deliberation and commitment. Here we evaluate recent progress in
understanding how these basic elements of decision formation are implemented in
the brain. We focus on simple decisions that can be studied in the laboratory but
emphasize general principles likely to extend to other settings.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.113038 
PMID: 17600525  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:475-503.

Development of neural systems for reading.

Schlaggar BL(1), McCandliss BD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
Missouri 63110, USA. schlaggarb@neuro.wustl.edu

Functional and structural neuroimaging studies of adult readers have provided a
deeper understanding of the neural basis of reading, yet such findings also
elicit new questions about how developing neural systems come to support this
learned ability. A developmental cognitive neuroscience approach provides
insights into how skilled reading emerges in the developing brain, yet also
raises new methodological challenges. This review focuses on functional changes
that occur during reading acquisition in cortical regions associated with both
the perception of visual words and spoken language, and it examines how such
functional changes differ within developmental reading disabilities. We integrate
these findings within an interactive specialization framework of functional
development and propose that such a framework may provide insights into how
individual differences at several levels of observation (genetics, white matter
tract structure, functional organization of language, cultural organization of
writing systems) impact the emergence of neural systems involved in reading
ability and disability.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135645 
PMID: 17600524  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:451-74.

Adhesion molecules in the nervous system: structural insights into function and
diversity.

Shapiro L(1), Love J, Colman DR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, 2Edward S. Harkness Eye
Institute, Columbia University, New York, New York 10032 USA. LSS8@columbia.edu

The unparalleled complexity of intercellular connections in the nervous system
presents requirements for high levels of both specificity and diversity for the
proteins that mediate cell adhesion. Here we describe recent advances toward
understanding the molecular mechanisms that underlie adhesive binding,
specificity, and diversity for several well-characterized families of adhesion
molecules in the nervous system. Although many families of adhesion proteins,
including cadherins and immunoglobulin superfamily members, are utilized in
neural and nonneural contexts, nervous system-specific diversification
mechanisms, such as precisely regulated alternative splicing, provide an
important means to enable their function in the complex context of the nervous
system.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.113034 
PMID: 17600523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:259-88.

Multiple dopamine functions at different time courses.

Schultz W(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development, and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3DY, United Kingdom. ws234@cam.ac.uk

Many lesion studies report an amazing variety of deficits in behavioral functions
that cannot possibly be encoded in great detail by the relatively small number of
midbrain dopamine neurons. Although hoping to unravel a single dopamine function 
underlying these phenomena, electrophysiological and neurochemical studies still 
give a confusing, mutually exclusive, and partly contradictory account of
dopamine's role in behavior. However, the speed of observed phasic dopamine
changes varies several thousand fold, which offers a means to differentiate the
behavioral relationships according to their time courses. Thus dopamine is
involved in mediating the reactivity of the organism to the environment at
different time scales, from fast impulse responses related to reward via slower
changes with uncertainty, punishment, and possibly movement to the tonic enabling
of postsynaptic motor, cognitive, and motivational systems deficient in
Parkinson's disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135722 
PMID: 17600522  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:367-98.

Neurobiology of feeding and energy expenditure.

Gao Q(1), Horvath TL.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Comparative Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New
Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. qian.gao@yale.edu

Significant advancements have been made in the past century regarding the
neuronal control of feeding behavior and energy expenditure. The effects and
mechanisms of action of various peripheral metabolic signals on the brain have
become clearer. Molecular and genetic tools for visualizing and manipulating
individual components of brain homeostatic systems in combination with
neuroanatomical, electrophysiological, behavioral, and pharmacological techniques
have begun to elucidate the molecular and neuronal mechanisms of complex feeding 
behavior and energy expenditure. This review highlights some of these
advancements that have led to the current understanding of the brain's
involvement in the acute and chronic regulation of energy homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094324 
PMID: 17506645  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:153-79.

Why is Wallerian degeneration in the CNS so slow?

Vargas ME(1), Barres BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California 94305, USA. mevargas@stanford.edu

Wallerian degeneration (WD) is the set of molecular and cellular events by which 
degenerating axons and myelin are cleared after injury. Why WD is rapid and
robust in the PNS but slow and incomplete in the CNS is a longstanding mystery.
Here we review current work on the mechanisms of WD with an emphasis on
deciphering this mystery and on understanding whether slow WD in the CNS could
account for the failure of CNS axons to regenerate.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094354 
PMID: 17506644  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:505-33.

Molecular architecture of smell and taste in Drosophila.

Vosshall LB(1), Stocker RF.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurogenetics and Behavior, The Rockefeller University, New
York, NY 10021-6399, USA. leslie@mail.rockefeller.edu

The chemical senses-smell and taste-allow animals to evaluate and distinguish
valuable food resources from dangerous substances in the environment. The central
mechanisms by which the brain recognizes and discriminates attractive and
repulsive odorants and tastants, and makes behavioral decisions accordingly, are 
not well understood in any organism. Recent molecular and neuroanatomical
advances in Drosophila have produced a nearly complete picture of the peripheral 
neuroanatomy and function of smell and taste in this insect. Neurophysiological
experiments have begun to provide insight into the mechanisms by which these
animals process chemosensory cues. Given the considerable anatomical and
functional homology in smell and taste pathways in all higher animals,
experimental approaches in Drosophila will likely provide broad insights into the
problem of sensory coding. Here we provide a critical review of the recent
literature in this field and comment on likely future directions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094306 
PMID: 17506643  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:235-58.

Neuron-glial interactions in blood-brain barrier formation.

Banerjee S(1), Bhat MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Physiology, Curriculum in Neurobiology,
Neurodevelopmental Disorders Research Center, UNC-Neuroscience Center, University
of North Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7545, USA.
swati_banerjee@med.unc.edu

The blood brain barrier (BBB) evolved to preserve the microenvironment of the
highly excitable neuronal cells to allow for action potential generation and
propagation. Intricate molecular interactions between two main cell types, the
neurons and the glial cells, form the underlying basis of the critical
functioning of the nervous system across species. In invertebrates, interactions 
between neurons and glial cells are central in establishing a functional BBB.
However, in vertebrates, the BBB formation and function is coordinated by
interactions between neurons, glial cells, and endothelial cells. Here we review 
the neuron-glial interaction-based blood barriers in invertebrates and
vertebrates and provide an evolutionary perspective as to how a glial-barrier
system in invertebrates evolved into an endothelial barrier system. We also
summarize the clinical relevance of the BBB as this protective barrier becomes
disadvantageous in the pharmacological treatment of various neurological
disorders.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094345 
PMCID: PMC2824917
PMID: 17506642  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:339-65.

The micromachinery of mechanotransduction in hair cells.

Vollrath MA(1), Kwan KY, Corey DP.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Neurobiology, Harvard
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. mvollrath@hms.harvard.edu

Mechanical stimuli generated by head movements and changes in sound pressure are 
detected by hair cells with amazing speed and sensitivity. The mechanosensitive
organelle, the hair bundle, is a highly elaborated structure of actin-based
stereocilia arranged in precise rows of increasing height. Extracellular linkages
contribute to its cohesion and convey forces to mechanically gated channels.
Channel opening is nearly instantaneous and is followed by a process of sensory
adaptation that keeps the channels poised in their most sensitive range. This
process is served by motors, scaffolds, and homeostatic mechanisms. The molecular
constituents of this process are rapidly being elucidated, especially by the
discovery of deafness genes and antibody targets.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112917 
PMCID: PMC2865174
PMID: 17428178  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:425-50.

Dynamic aspects of CNS synapse formation.

McAllister AK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience, University of California, Davis, California 95616,
USA. kmcallister@ucdavis.edu

The mammalian central nervous system (CNS) requires the proper formation of
exquisitely precise circuits to function correctly. These neuronal circuits are
assembled during development by the formation of synaptic connections between
thousands of differentiating neurons. Proper synapse formation during childhood
provides the substrate for cognition, whereas improper formation or function of
these synapses leads to neurodevelopmental disorders, including mental
retardation and autism. Recent work has begun to identify some of the early
cellular events in synapse formation as well as the molecular signals that
initiate this process. However, despite the wealth of information published on
this topic in the past few years, some of the most fundamental questions about
how, whether, and where glutamatergic synapses form in the mammalian CNS remain
unanswered. This review focuses on the dynamic aspects of the early cellular and 
molecular events in the initial assembly of glutamatergic synapses in the
mammalian CNS.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112830 
PMCID: PMC3251656
PMID: 17417940  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:123-52.

The medial temporal lobe and recognition memory.

Eichenbaum H(1), Yonelinas AP, Ranganath C.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Memory and Brain, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts 02215,
USA. hbe@bu.edu

The ability to recognize a previously experienced stimulus is supported by two
processes: recollection of the stimulus in the context of other information
associated with the experience, and a sense of familiarity with the features of
the stimulus. Although familiarity and recollection are functionally distinct,
there is considerable debate about how these kinds of memory are supported by
regions in the medial temporal lobes (MTL). Here, we review evidence for the
distinction between recollection and familiarity and then consider the evidence
regarding the neural mechanisms of these processes. Evidence from
neuropsychological, neuroimaging, and neurophysiological studies of humans,
monkeys, and rats indicates that different subregions of the MTL make distinct
contributions to recollection and familiarity. The data suggest that the
hippocampus is critical for recollection but not familiarity. The parahippocampal
cortex also contributes to recollection, possibly via the representation and
retrieval of contextual (especially spatial) information, whereas perirhinal
cortex contributes to and is necessary for familiarity-based recognition. The
findings are consistent with an anatomically guided hypothesis about the
functional organization of the MTL and suggest mechanisms by which the anatomical
components of the MTL interact to support the phenomenology of recollection and
familiarity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094328 
PMCID: PMC2064941
PMID: 17417939  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:99-122.

Visual perception and memory: a new view of medial temporal lobe function in
primates and rodents.

Murray EA(1), Bussey TJ, Saksida LM.

Author information: 
(1)Section on the Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Laboratory of
Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of
Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. murraye@mail.nih.gov

The prevailing view of medial temporal lobe (MTL) function has two principal
elements: first, that the MTL subserves memory but not perception, and second,
that the many anatomically distinctive parts of the MTL function together in the 
service of declarative memory. Recent neuropsychological studies have, however,
challenged both opinions. First, studies in rodents, nonhuman primates, and
humans suggest that the perirhinal cortex represents information about objects
for both mnemonic and perceptual purposes. Second, the idea that MTL components
contribute to declarative memory in similar ways has also been contradicted.
Whereas the perirhinal cortex plays an essential role in familiarity-based object
recognition, the hippocampus contributes little, if at all, to this function. In 
both primates and rodents, the hippocampus contributes to the memory and
perception of places and paths, whereas the perirhinal cortex does so for objects
and the contents of scenes.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.113046 
PMID: 17417938  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:575-621.

Trinucleotide repeat disorders.

Orr HT(1), Zoghbi HY.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, 
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA. orrxx002@umn.edu

The discovery that expansion of unstable repeats can cause a variety of
neurological disorders has changed the landscape of disease-oriented research for
several forms of mental retardation, Huntington disease, inherited ataxias, and
muscular dystrophy. The dynamic nature of these mutations provided an explanation
for the variable phenotype expressivity within a family. Beyond diagnosis and
genetic counseling, the benefits from studying these disorders have been noted in
both neurobiology and cell biology. Examples include insight about the role of
translational control in synaptic plasticity, the role of RNA processing in the
integrity of muscle and neuronal function, the importance of Fe-S-containing
enzymes for cellular energy, and the dramatic effects of altering protein
conformations on neuronal function and survival. It is exciting that within a
span of 15 years, pathogenesis studies of this class of disorders are beginning
to reveal pathways that are potential therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.113042 
PMID: 17417937  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:31-56.

Orbitofrontal cortex and its contribution to decision-making.

Wallis JD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Helen Wills Neuroscience Institute and the Department of Psychology,
University of California, Berkeley, California 94720-3190, USA.
wallis@berkeley.edu

Damage to orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) produces an unusual pattern of deficits.
Patients have intact cognitive abilities but are impaired in making everyday
decisions. Here we review anatomical, neuropsychological, and neurophysiological 
evidence to determine the neuronal mechanisms that might underlie these
impairments. We suggest that OFC plays a key role in processing reward: It
integrates multiple sources of information regarding the reward outcome to derive
a value signal. In effect, OFC calculates how rewarding a reward is. This value
signal can then be held in working memory where it can be used by lateral
prefrontal cortex to plan and organize behavior toward obtaining the outcome, and
by medial prefrontal cortex to evaluate the overall action in terms of its
success and the effort that was required. Thus, acting together, these prefrontal
areas can ensure that our behavior is most efficiently directed towards
satisfying our needs.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094334 
PMID: 17417936  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:57-78.

Fundamental components of attention.

Knudsen EI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California 94305-5125, USA. eknudsen@stanford.edu

A mechanistic understanding of attention is necessary for the elucidation of the 
neurobiological basis of conscious experience. This chapter presents a framework 
for thinking about attention that facilitates the analysis of this cognitive
process in terms of underlying neural mechanisms. Four processes are fundamental 
to attention: working memory, top-down sensitivity control, competitive
selection, and automatic bottom-up filtering for salient stimuli. Each process
makes a distinct and essential contribution to attention. Voluntary control of
attention involves the first three processes (working memory, top-down
sensitivity control, and competitive selection) operating in a recurrent loop.
Recent results from neurobiological research on attention are discussed within
this framework.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094256 
PMID: 17417935  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:399-423.

Mechanisms that regulate establishment, maintenance, and remodeling of dendritic 
fields.

Parrish JZ(1), Emoto K, Kim MD, Jan YN.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Departments of Physiology, Biochemistry and
Biophysics, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California
94143, USA.

Although dendrite arborization patterns are hallmarks of neuronal type and
critical determinants of neuronal function, how dendritic arbors take shape is
still largely unknown. Transcription factors play important roles in specifying
neuronal types and have a profound influence on dendritic arbor size and
complexity. The space that a dendritic arbor occupies is determined largely by a 
combination of growth-promoting signals that regulate arbor size, chemotropic
cues that steer dendrites into the appropriate space, and neurite-neurite
contacts that ensure proper representation of the dendritic field and appropriate
synaptic contacts. Dendritic arbors are largely maintained over the neuron's
lifetime, but in some cases, dendritic arbors are refined, in large part as a
result of neuronal activity. In this review, we summarize our current
understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms that regulate dendritic
field formation and influence the shaping of dendritic arbors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112907 
PMID: 17378766  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:289-316.

Ventral tegmental area neurons in learned appetitive behavior and positive
reinforcement.

Fields HL(1), Hjelmstad GO, Margolis EB, Nicola SM.

Author information: 
(1)Ernest Gallo Clinic and Research Center and Wheeler Center for the
Neurobiology of Addiction, University of California, San Francisco, Emeryville,
California 94608, USA. hlf@phy.ucsf.edu

Ventral tegmental area (VTA) neuron firing precedes behaviors elicited by
reward-predictive sensory cues and scales with the magnitude and unpredictability
of received rewards. These patterns are consistent with roles in the performance 
of learned appetitive behaviors and in positive reinforcement, respectively. The 
VTA includes subpopulations of neurons with different afferent connections,
neurotransmitter content, and projection targets. Because the VTA and substantia 
nigra pars compacta are the sole sources of striatal and limbic forebrain
dopamine, measurements of dopamine release and manipulations of dopamine function
have provided critical evidence supporting a VTA contribution to these functions.
However, the VTA also sends GABAergic and glutamatergic projections to the
nucleus accumbens and prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, VTA-mediated but
dopamine-independent positive reinforcement has been demonstrated. Consequently, 
identifying the neurotransmitter content and projection target of VTA neurons
recorded in vivo will be critical for determining their contribution to learned
appetitive behaviors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094341 
PMID: 17376009  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:317-37.

Copper and iron disorders of the brain.

Madsen E(1), Gitlin JD.

Author information: 
(1)Edward Mallinckrodt Department of Pediatrics, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63130, USA. madsene@wustl.edu

Copper and iron are transition elements essential for life. These metals are
required to maintain the brain's biochemistry such that deficiency or excess of
either copper or iron results in central nervous system disease. This review
focuses on the inherited disorders in humans that directly affect copper or iron 
homeostasis in the brain. Elucidation of the molecular genetic basis of these
rare disorders has provided insight into the mechanisms of copper and iron
acquisition, trafficking, storage, and excretion in the brain. This knowledge
permits a greater understanding of copper and iron roles in neurobiology and
neurologic disease and may allow for the development of therapeutic approaches
where aberrant metal homeostasis is implicated in disease pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094232 
PMID: 17367269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:209-33.

Peripheral regeneration.

Chen ZL(1), Yu WM, Strickland S.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurobiology and Genetics, The Rockefeller University, New York,
NY 10021, USA. chenz@rockefeller.edu

Whereas the central nervous system (CNS) usually cannot regenerate, peripheral
nerves regenerate spontaneously after injury because of a permissive environment 
and activation of the intrinsic growth capacity of neurons. Functional
regeneration requires axon regrowth and remyelination of the regenerated axons by
Schwann cells. Multiple factors including neurotrophic factors, extracellular
matrix (ECM) proteins, and hormones participate in Schwann cell
dedifferentiation, proliferation, and remyelination. We describe the current
understanding of peripheral axon regeneration and focus on the molecules and
potential mechanisms involved in remyelination.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094337 
PMID: 17341159  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:181-207.

The head direction signal: origins and sensory-motor integration.

Taube JS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Center for Cognitive
Neuroscience, Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire, 03755, USA.
jeffrey.taube@dartmouth.edu

Navigation first requires accurate perception of one's spatial orientation within
the environment, which consists of knowledge about location and directional
heading. Cells within several limbic system areas of the mammalian brain
discharge allocentrically as a function of the animal's directional heading,
independent of the animal's location and ongoing behavior. These cells are
referred to as head direction (HD) cells and are believed to encode the animal's 
perceived directional heading with respect to its environment. Although HD cells 
are found in several areas, the principal circuit for generating this signal
originates in the dorsal tegmental nucleus and projects serially, with some
reciprocal connections, to the lateral mammillary nucleus --> anterodorsal
thalamus --> PoS, and terminates in the entorhinal cortex. HD cells receive
multimodal information about landmarks and self-generated movements. Vestibular
information appears critical for generating the directional signal, but
motor/proprioceptive and landmark information are important for updating it.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112854 
PMID: 17341158  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:1-30.

Information processing in the primate retina: circuitry and coding.

Field GD(1), Chichilnisky EJ.

Author information: 
(1)The Salk Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA. ej@salk.edu

The function of any neural circuit is governed by connectivity of neurons in the 
circuit and the computations performed by the neurons. Recent research on retinal
function has substantially advanced understanding in both areas. First, visual
information is transmitted to the brain by at least 17 distinct retinal ganglion 
cell types defined by characteristic morphology, light response properties, and
central projections. These findings provide a much more accurate view of the
parallel visual pathways emanating from the retina than do previous models, and
they highlight the importance of identifying distinct cell types and their
connectivity in other neural circuits. Second, encoding of visual information
involves significant temporal structure and interactions in the spike trains of
retinal neurons. The functional importance of this structure is revealed by
computational analysis of encoding and decoding, an approach that may be
applicable to understanding the function of other neural circuits.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094252 
PMID: 17335403  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2007;30:79-97.

Anatomical and physiological plasticity of dendritic spines.

Alvarez VA(1), Sabatini BL.

Author information: 
(1)Harvard Medical School, Department of Neurobiology, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA. valvarez@hms.harvard.edu

In excitatory neurons, most glutamatergic synapses are made on the heads of
dendritic spines, each of which houses the postsynaptic terminal of a single
glutamatergic synapse. We review recent studies demonstrating in vivo that spines
are motile and plastic structures whose morphology and lifespan are influenced,
even in adult animals, by changes in sensory input. However, most spines that
appear in adult animals are transient, and the addition of stable spines and
synapses is rare. In vitro studies have shown that patterns of neuronal activity 
known to induce synaptic plasticity can also trigger changes in spine morphology.
Therefore, it is tempting to speculate that the plastic changes of spine
morphology reflect the dynamic state of its associated synapse and are
responsible to some extent for neuronal circuitry remodeling. Nevertheless,
morphological changes are not required for all forms of synaptic plasticity, and 
whether changes in the spine shape and size significantly impact synaptic signals
is unclear.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.30.051606.094222 
PMID: 17280523  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:565-98.

Neural mechanisms of addiction: the role of reward-related learning and memory.

Hyman SE(1), Malenka RC, Nestler EJ.

Author information: 
(1)Office of the Provost, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138,
USA. seh@harvard.edu

Addiction is a state of compulsive drug use; despite treatment and other attempts
to control drug taking, addiction tends to persist. Clinical and laboratory
observations have converged on the hypothesis that addiction represents the
pathological usurpation of neural processes that normally serve reward-related
learning. The major substrates of persistent compulsive drug use are hypothesized
to be molecular and cellular mechanisms that underlie long-term associative
memories in several forebrain circuits (involving the ventral and dorsal striatum
and prefrontal cortex) that receive input from midbrain dopamine neurons. Here we
review progress in identifying candidate mechanisms of addiction.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.113009 
PMID: 16776597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:539-63.

The hedgehog pathway and neurological disorders.

Dellovade T(1), Romer JT, Curran T, Rubin LL.

Author information: 
(1)Curis, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138, USA. tdellovade@curis.com

The hedgehog pathway is a major regulator of embryonic development, and mutations
that decrease its activity are known to be associated with severe defects in
nervous system development. Recent evidence suggests hedgehog continues to
function in adult tissue, normal as well as diseased, by regulating both cell
proliferation and the production of growth and angiogenic factors. In the adult
nervous system, this dual ability is especially important in regulating the
behavior of neural stem and progenitor cells. This review summarizes information 
connecting hedgehog signaling and neural diseases, including neurodegenerative
disorders and brain tumors, particularly medulloblastoma. We also describe the
discovery and utility of small molecule agonists and antagonists of this pathway 
and their potential as novel types of therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112858 
PMID: 16776596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:507-38.

Neurotrophins: mediators and modulators of pain.

Pezet S(1), McMahon SB.

Author information: 
(1)The London Pain Consortium, King's College London, The Wolfson Center for
Age-Related Diseases, SE1 1UL London, United Kingdom. sophie.pezet@kcl.ac.uk

The neurotrophin family of neurotrophic factors are well-known for their effects 
on neuronal survival and growth. Over the past decade, considerable evidence has 
accumulated from both humans and animals that one neurotrophin, nerve growth
factor (NGF), is a peripheral pain mediator, particularly in inflammatory pain
states. NGF is upregulated in a wide variety of inflammatory conditions, and
NGF-neutralizing molecules are effective analgesic agents in many models of
persistent pain. Such molecules are now being evaluated in clinical trials. NGF
regulates the expression of a second neurotrophin, brain-derived neurotrophic
factor (BDNF), in nociceptors. BDNF is released when nociceptors are activated,
and it acts as a central modulator of pain. The chapter reviews the evidence for 
these roles (and briefly the effects of other neurotrophins), the range of
conditions under which they act, and their mechanism of action.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112929 
PMID: 16776595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:477-505.

Complete functional characterization of sensory neurons by system identification.

Wu MC(1), David SV, Gallant JL.

Author information: 
(1)Biophysics Graduate Group, University of California, Berkeley, California
94720, USA.

System identification is a growing approach to sensory neurophysiology that
facilitates the development of quantitative functional models of sensory
processing. This approach provides a clear set of guidelines for combining
experimental data with other knowledge about sensory function to obtain a
description that optimally predicts the way that neurons process sensory
information. This prediction paradigm provides an objective method for evaluating
and comparing computational models. In this chapter we review many of the system 
identification algorithms that have been used in sensory neurophysiology, and we 
show how they can be viewed as variants of a single statistical inference
problem. We then review many of the practical issues that arise when applying
these methods to neurophysiological experiments: stimulus selection, behavioral
control, model visualization, and validation. Finally we discuss several problems
to which system identification has been applied recently, including one important
long-term goal of sensory neuroscience: developing models of sensory systems that
accurately predict neuronal responses under completely natural conditions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.113024 
PMID: 16776594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:449-76.

Brain work and brain imaging.

Raichle ME(1), Mintun MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, 
Missouri 63110, USA. marc@npg.wustl.edu

Functional brain imaging with positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance
imaging has been used extensively to map regional changes in brain activity. The 
signal used by both techniques is based on changes in local circulation and
metabolism (brain work). Our understanding of the cell biology of these changes
has progressed greatly in the past decade. New insights have emerged on the role 
of astrocytes in signal transduction as has an appreciation of the unique
contribution of aerobic glycolysis to brain energy metabolism. Likewise our
understanding of the neurophysiologic processes responsible for imaging signals
has progressed from an assumption that spiking activity (output) of neurons is
most relevant to one focused on their input. Finally, neuroimaging, with its
unique metabolic perspective, has alerted us to the ongoing and costly intrinsic 
activity within brain systems that most likely represents the largest fraction of
the brain's functional activity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112819 
PMID: 16776593  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:417-48.

Imaging valuation models in human choice.

Montague PR(1), King-Casas B, Cohen JD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, 
USA.

To make a decision, a system must assign value to each of its available choices. 
In the human brain, one approach to studying valuation has used rewarding stimuli
to map out brain responses by varying the dimension or importance of the rewards.
However, theoretical models have taught us that value computations are complex,
and so reward probes alone can give only partial information about neural
responses related to valuation. In recent years, computationally principled
models of value learning have been used in conjunction with noninvasive
neuroimaging to tease out neural valuation responses related to reward-learning
and decision-making. We restrict our review to the role of these models in a new 
generation of experiments that seeks to build on a now-large body of diverse
reward-related brain responses. We show that the models and the measurements
based on them point the way forward in two important directions: the valuation of
time and the valuation of fictive experience.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112903 
PMID: 16776592  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:387-415.

Pathomechanisms in channelopathies of skeletal muscle and brain.

Cannon SC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center,
Dallas, Texas 75390, USA. steve.cannon@utsouthwestern.edu

Ion channelopathies are a diverse array of human disorders caused by mutations in
ion channel genes. This review focuses on the pathogenic mechanisms of
channelopathies affecting skeletal muscle and brain arising from mutations of
voltage-gated ion channels and fast ligand-gated ion channels expressed at the
surface membrane. Derangements in channel function alter the electrical
excitability of the cell and thereby increase susceptibility to transient
symptomatic attacks including myasthenia, periodic paralysis, myotonic stiffness,
seizures, headache, dyskinesia, or episodic ataxia. Although these disorders are 
rare, they stand out as exemplary cases for which disease pathogenesis can be
traced from a point mutation to altered protein function, to altered cellular
activity, and to clinical phenotype. The study of these disorders has provided
insights on channel structure-function relations, the physiological roles of ion 
channels, and rational approaches toward therapeutic intervention for many
disorders of cellular excitability.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112815 
PMID: 16776591  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:363-86.

Noncanonical Wnt signaling and neural polarity.

Montcouquiol M(1), Crenshaw EB 3rd, Kelley MW.

Author information: 
(1)Section on Developmental Neuroscience, NIDCD, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland 20982,
USA.

The Wnt signaling pathway regulates multiple events in development and disease in
both vertebrates and invertebrates. Recently, the noncanonical Wnt signaling
cascades, those that do not signal through beta-catenin, have gained prominence
for their role in the regulation of cellular polarity. It is not surprising that 
cellular polarization influences a number of different developmental events
within the nervous system, including neurulation and neural tube closure,
cellular migration, and uniform orientation of cells within an epithelial plane
(planar cell polarity). In this review, we describe the differences between the
canonical and noncanonical pathways, summarize recent data illustrating the roles
of the noncanonical Wnt pathway in different polarizing events during neural
development, and discuss the potential molecular mechanisms that underlie the
generation of cellular asymmetry and polarity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112933 
PMID: 16776590  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:325-62.

Organelles and trafficking machinery for postsynaptic plasticity.

Kennedy MJ(1), Ehlers MD.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Neurobiology, Duke University
Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. kennedy@neuro.duke.edu

Neurons are among the largest and most complex cells in the body. Their immense
size and intricate geometry pose many unique cell-biological problems. How is
dendritic architecture established and maintained? How do neurons traffic newly
synthesized integral membrane proteins over such long distances to synapses?
Functionally, protein trafficking to and from the postsynaptic membrane has
emerged as a key mechanism underlying various forms of synaptic plasticity. Which
organelles are involved in postsynaptic trafficking, and how do they integrate
and respond to activity at individual synapses? Here we review what is currently 
known about long-range trafficking of newly synthesized postsynaptic proteins as 
well as the local rules that govern postsynaptic trafficking at individual
synapses.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112808 
PMCID: PMC1876664
PMID: 16776589  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:307-23.

Homeostatic control of neural activity: from phenomenology to molecular design.

Davis GW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Program in Neuroscience, University
of California, San Francisco, California 94158-2822, USA. gdavis@biochem.ucsf.edu

Homeostasis is a specialized form of regulation that precisely maintains the
function of a system at a set point level of activity. Recently, homeostatic
signaling has been suggested to control neural activity through the modulation of
synaptic efficacy and membrane excitability ( Davis & Goodman 1998a, Turrigiano &
Nelson 2000, Marder & Prinz 2002, Perez-Otano & Ehlers 2005 ). In this way,
homeostatic signaling is thought to constrain neural plasticity and contribute to
the stability of neural function over time. Using a restrictive definition of
homeostasis, this review first evaluates the phenomenological and molecular
evidence for homeostatic signaling in the nervous system. Then, basic principles 
underlying the design and molecular implementation of homeostatic signaling are
reviewed on the basis of work in other, simplified biological systems such as
bacterial chemotaxis and the heat shock response. Data from these systems are
then discussed in the context of homeostatic signaling in the nervous system.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135751 
PMID: 16776588  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:279-306.

Locomotor circuits in the mammalian spinal cord.

Kiehn O(1).

Author information: 
(1)Mammalian Locomotor Laboratory, Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska
Institutet, Stockholm S17177, Sweden. O.Kiehn@neuro.ki.se

Intrinsic spinal networks, known as central pattern generators (CPGs), control
the timing and pattern of the muscle activity underlying locomotion in mammals.
This review discusses new advances in understanding the mammalian CPGs with a
focus on experiments that address the overall network structure as well as the
identification of CPG neurons. I address the identification of excitatory CPG
neurons and their role in rhythm generation, the organization of flexor-extensor 
networks, and the diverse role of commissural interneurons in coordinating
left-right movements. Molecular and genetic approaches that have the potential to
elucidate the function of populations of CPG interneurons are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112910 
PMID: 16776587  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:259-77.

RNA-mediated neuromuscular disorders.

Ranum LP(1), Cooper TA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Human Genetics and Department of Genetics, Cell Biology &
Development, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA.
ranum001@umn.edu

Myotonic dystrophy type 1 (DM1) is caused by a CTG expansion mutation located in 
the 3' untranslated portion of the dystrophica myotonin protein kinase gene. The 
identification and characterization of RNA-binding proteins that interact with
expanded CUG repeats and the discovery that a similar transcribed but
untranslated CCTG expansion in an intron causes myotonic dystrophy type 2 (DM2)
have uncovered a new type of mechanism in which microsatellite expansion
mutations cause disease through an RNA gain-of-function mechanism. This review
discusses RNA pathogenesis in DM1 and DM2 and evidence that similar mechanisms
may play a role in a growing number of dominant noncoding expansion disorders,
including fragile X tremor ataxia syndrome (FXTAS), spinocerebellar ataxia type 8
(SCA8), SCA10, SCA12, and Huntington's disease-like 2 (HDL2).

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.113014 
PMID: 16776586  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:229-57.

Deep brain stimulation.

Perlmutter JS(1), Mink JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine, Washington 
University, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. joel@npg.wustl.edu

Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has provided remarkable benefits for people with a
variety of neurologic conditions. Stimulation of the ventral intermediate nucleus
of the thalamus can dramatically relieve tremor associated with essential tremor 
or Parkinson disease (PD). Similarly, stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus or
the internal segment of the globus pallidus can substantially reduce
bradykinesia, rigidity, tremor, and gait difficulties in people with PD. Multiple
groups are attempting to extend this mode of treatment to other conditions. Yet, 
the precise mechanism of action of DBS remains uncertain. Such studies have
importance that extends beyond clinical therapeutics. Investigations of the
mechanisms of action of DBS have the potential to clarify fundamental issues such
as the functional anatomy of selected brain circuits and the relationship between
activity in those circuits and behavior. Although we review relevant clinical
issues, we emphasize the importance of current and future investigations on these
topics.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112824 
PMCID: PMC4518728
PMID: 16776585  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:203-27.

Cortical algorithms for perceptual grouping.

Roelfsema PR(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Netherlands Ophthalmic Research Institute, Meibergdreef 47, 1105 BA
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. p.roelfsema@nin.knaw.nl

A fundamental task of vision is to group the image elements that belong to one
object and to segregate them from other objects and the background. This review
provides a conceptual framework of how perceptual grouping may be implemented in 
the visual cortex. According to this framework, two mechanisms are responsible
for perceptual grouping: base-grouping and incremental grouping. Base-groupings
are coded by single neurons tuned to multiple features, like the combination of a
color and an orientation. They are computed rapidly because they reflect the
selectivity of feedforward connections. However, not all conceivable feature
combinations are coded by dedicated neurons. Therefore, a second, flexible form
of grouping is required called incremental grouping. Incremental grouping
enhances the responses of neurons coding features that are bound in perception,
but it takes more time than does base-grouping because it relies also on
horizontal and feedback connections. The modulation of neuronal response strength
during incremental grouping has a correlate in psychology because attention is
directed to those features that are labeled by the enhanced neuronal response.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112939 
PMID: 16776584  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:163-201.

Early events in olfactory processing.

Wilson RI(1), Mainen ZF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA. rachel_wilson@hms.harvard.edu

Olfactory space has a higher dimensionality than does any other class of sensory 
stimuli, and the olfactory system receives input from an unusually large number
of unique information channels. This suggests that aspects of olfactory
processing may differ fundamentally from processing in other sensory modalities. 
This review summarizes current understanding of early events in olfactory
processing. We focus on how odors are encoded by the activity of primary
olfactory receptor neurons, how odor codes may be transformed in the olfactory
bulb, and what relevance these codes may have for downstream neurons in higher
brain centers. Recent findings in synaptic physiology, neural coding, and
psychophysics are discussed, with reference to both vertebrate and insect model
systems.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112950 
PMID: 16776583  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:135-61.

Trp ion channels and temperature sensation.

Dhaka A(1), Viswanath V, Patapoutian A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, The Scripps Research Institute, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA. dhaka@scripps.edu

The abilities to sense environmental and internal temperatures are required for
survival, both for maintenance of homeostasis and for avoidance of
tissue-damaging noxious temperatures. Vertebrates can sense external physical
stimuli via specialized classes of neurons in the peripheral nervous system that 
project to the skin. Temperature-sensitive neurons can be divided into two
classes: innocuous thermosensors (warm or cool) and noxious thermonociceptors
(hot or cold). ThermoTRPs, a subset of the transient receptor potential family of
ion channels, which are expressed in sensory nerve endings and in skin, respond
to distinct thermal thresholds. In this review, we examine the extent to which
thermoTRPs are responsible for providing a molecular basis for thermal sensation.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112958 
PMID: 16776582  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:105-34.

The organization of behavioral repertoire in motor cortex.

Graziano M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Green Hall, Princeton University, Princeton, New
Jersey 08544, USA. Graziano@princeton.edu

Motor cortex in the primate brain was once thought to contain a simple map of the
body's muscles. Recent evidence suggests, however, that it operates at a
radically more complex level, coordinating behaviorally useful actions. Specific 
subregions of motor cortex may emphasize different ethologically relevant
categories of behavior, such as interactions between the hand and the mouth,
reaching motions, or defensive maneuvers to protect the body surface from
impending impact. Single neurons in motor cortex may contribute to these
behaviors by means of their broad tuning to idiosyncratic, multijoint actions.
The mapping from cortex to muscles is not fixed, as was once thought, but instead
is fluid, changing continuously on the basis of feedback in a manner that could
support the control of higher-order movement parameters. These findings suggest
that the motor cortex participates directly in organizing and controlling the
animal's behavioral repertoire.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112924 
PMID: 16776581  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:77-103.

Noncoding RNAs in the mammalian central nervous system.

Cao X(1), Yeo G, Muotri AR, Kuwabara T, Gage FH.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla,
California 92037, USA. cao@salk.edu

The central nervous system (CNS) is arguably one of the most complex systems in
the universe. To understand the CNS, scientists have investigated a variety of
molecules, including proteins, lipids, and various small molecules. However, one 
large class of molecules, noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs), has been relatively
unexplored. ncRNAs function directly as structural, catalytic, or regulatory
molecules rather than serving as templates for protein synthesis. The increasing 
variety of ncRNAs being identified in the CNS suggests a strong connection
between the biogenesis, dynamics of action, and combinatorial regulatory
potential of ncRNAs and the complexity of the CNS. In this review, we give an
overview of the diversity and abundance of ncRNAs before delving into specific
examples that illustrate their importance in the CNS. In particular, we cover
recent evidence for the roles of microRNAs, small nucleolar RNAs,
retrotransposons, the NRSE small modulatory RNA, and BC1/BC200 in the CNS.
Finally, we speculate why ncRNAs are well adapted to improving
organism-environment interactions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112839 
PMID: 16776580  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


241. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:37-76.

Endocannabinoid-mediated synaptic plasticity in the CNS.

Chevaleyre V(1), Takahashi KA, Castillo PE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New
York 10461, USA.

Changes in synaptic efficacy are thought to be crucial to experience-dependent
modifications of neural function. The diversity of mechanisms underlying these
changes is far greater than previously expected. In the last five years, a new
class of use-dependent synaptic plasticity that requires retrograde signaling by 
endocannabinoids (eCB) and presynaptic CB1 receptor activation has been
identified in several brain structures. eCB-mediated plasticity encompasses many 
forms of transient and long-lasting synaptic depression and is found at both
excitatory and inhibitory synapses. In addition, eCBs can modify the inducibility
of non-eCB-mediated forms of plasticity. Thus, the eCB system is emerging as a
major player in synaptic plasticity. Given the wide distribution of CB1 receptors
in the CNS, the list of brain structures and synapses expressing eCB-mediated
plasticity is likely to expand.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112834 
PMID: 16776579  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2006;29:1-35.

Adaptive roles of programmed cell death during nervous system development.

Buss RR(1), Sun W, Oppenheim RW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, Wake Forest University School of
Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27157, USA. rbuss@wfubmc.edu

The programmed cell death (PCD) of developing cells is considered an essential
adaptive process that evolved to serve diverse roles. We review the putative
adaptive functions of PCD in the animal kingdom with a major focus on PCD in the 
developing nervous system. Considerable evidence is consistent with the role of
PCD in events ranging from neurulation and synaptogenesis to the elimination of
adult-generated CNS cells. The remarkable recent progress in our understanding of
the genetic regulation of PCD has made it possible to perturb (inhibit) PCD and
determine the possible repercussions for nervous system development and function.
Although still in their infancy, these studies have so far revealed few striking 
behavioral or functional phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.29.051605.112800 
PMID: 16776578  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:109-26.

Autism: a window onto the development of the social and the analytic brain.

Baron-Cohen S(1), Belmonte MK.

Author information: 
(1)Autism Research Centre, Department of Psychiatry, University of Cambridge,
Cambridge, CB2 2AH, United Kingdom. sb205@cam.ac.uk

Although the neurobiological understanding of autism has been increasing
exponentially, the diagnosis of autism spectrum conditions still rests entirely
on behavioral criteria. Autism is therefore most productively approached using a 
combination of biological and psychological theory. The triad of behavioral
abnormalities in social function, communication, and restricted and repetitive
behaviors and interests can be explained psychologically by an impaired capacity 
for empathizing, or modeling the mental states governing the behavior of people, 
along with a superior capacity for systemizing, or inferring the rules governing 
the behavior of objects. This empathizing-systemizing theory explains other
psychological models such as impairments of executive function or central
coherence, and may have a neurobiological basis in abnormally low activity of
brain regions subserving social cognition, along with abnormally high activity of
regions subserving lower-level, perceptual processing--a pattern that may result 
from a skewed balance of local versus long-range functional connectivity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144137 
PMID: 16033325  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:503-32.

Dendritic computation.

London M(1), Häusser M.

Author information: 
(1)Wolfson Institute for Biomedical Research and Department of Physiology,
University College London, London WC1E 6BT, UK. m.london@ucl.ac.uk

One of the central questions in neuroscience is how particular tasks, or
computations, are implemented by neural networks to generate behavior. The
prevailing view has been that information processing in neural networks results
primarily from the properties of synapses and the connectivity of neurons within 
the network, with the intrinsic excitability of single neurons playing a lesser
role. As a consequence, the contribution of single neurons to computation in the 
brain has long been underestimated. Here we review recent work showing that
neuronal dendrites exhibit a range of linear and nonlinear mechanisms that allow 
them to implement elementary computations. We discuss why these dendritic
properties may be essential for the computations performed by the neuron and the 
network and provide theoretical and experimental examples to support this view.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135703 
PMID: 16033324  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:25-55.

The actin cytoskeleton: integrating form and function at the synapse.

Dillon C(1), Goda Y.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Cell Biology Unit and Laboratory for Molecular Cell Biology, University
College London, London WC1E 6BT, United Kingdom. christian.dillon@ucl.ac.uk

Synapses are highly specialized intercellular junctions that mediate the
transmission of information between axons and target cells. A fundamental
property of synapses is their ability to modify the efficacy of synaptic
communication through various forms of synaptic plasticity. Recent developments
in imaging techniques have revealed that synapses exhibit a high degree of
morphological plasticity under basal conditions and also in response to neuronal 
activity that induces alterations in synaptic strength. The underlying molecular 
basis for this morphological plasticity has attracted much attention, yet its
functional significance to the mechanisms of synaptic transmission and synaptic
plasticity remains elusive. These morphological changes ultimately require the
dynamic actin cytoskeleton, which is the major structural component of synapses. 
Delineating the physiological roles of the actin cytoskeleton in supporting
synaptic transmission and synaptic plasticity, therefore, paves the way for
gaining molecular insights into when and how synaptic machineries couple synapse 
form and function.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135757 
PMID: 16029114  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:533-63.

Optical imaging and control of genetically designated neurons in functioning
circuits.

Miesenböck G(1), Kevrekidis IG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 
06520, USA. gero.miesenboeck@yale.edu

Proteins with engineered sensitivities to light are infiltrating the biological
mechanisms by which neurons generate and detect electrochemical signals. Encoded 
in DNA and active only in genetically specified target cells, these proteins
provide selective optical interfaces for observing and controlling signaling by
defined groups of neurons in functioning circuits, in vitro and in vivo.
Light-emitting sensors of neuronal activity (reporting calcium increase,
neurotransmitter release, or membrane depolarization) have begun to reveal how
information is represented by neuronal assemblies, and how these representations 
are transformed during the computations that inform behavior. Light-driven
actuators control the electrical activities of central neurons in freely moving
animals and establish causal connections between the activation of specific
neurons and the expression of particular behaviors. Anchored within mathematical 
systems and control theory, the combination of finely resolved optical field
sensing and finely resolved optical field actuation will open new dimensions for 
the analysis of the connectivity, dynamics, and plasticity of neuronal circuits, 
and perhaps even for replacing lost--or designing novel--functionalities.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.051804.101610 
PMID: 16022604  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:451-501.

Neuronal substrates of complex behaviors in C. elegans.

de Bono M(1), Maricq AV.

Author information: 
(1)MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Hills Road, Cambridge CB2 2QH, United
Kingdom. debono@mrc-lmb.cam.ac.uk

A current challenge in neuroscience is to bridge the gaps between genes,
proteins, neurons, neural circuits, and behavior in a single animal model. The
nematode Caenorhabditis elegans has unique features that facilitate this
synthesis. Its nervous system includes exactly 302 neurons, and their pattern of 
synaptic connectivity is known. With only five olfactory neurons, C. elegans can 
dynamically respond to dozens of attractive and repellent odors. Thermosensory
neurons enable the nematode to remember its cultivation temperature and to track 
narrow isotherms. Polymodal sensory neurons detect a wide range of nociceptive
cues and signal robust escape responses. Pairing of sensory stimuli leads to
long-lived changes in behavior consistent with associative learning. Worms
exhibit social behaviors and complex ultradian rhythms driven by Ca(2+)
oscillators with clock-like properties. Genetic analysis has identified gene
products required for nervous system function and elucidated the molecular and
neural bases of behaviors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144259 
PMID: 16022603  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:403-50.

An integrative theory of locus coeruleus-norepinephrine function: adaptive gain
and optimal performance.

Aston-Jones G(1), Cohen JD.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuromodulation and Behavior, Department of Psychiatry,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. gaj@mail.med.upenn.edu

Historically, the locus coeruleus-norepinephrine (LC-NE) system has been
implicated in arousal, but recent findings suggest that this system plays a more 
complex and specific role in the control of behavior than investigators
previously thought. We review neurophysiological and modeling studies in monkey
that support a new theory of LC-NE function. LC neurons exhibit two modes of
activity, phasic and tonic. Phasic LC activation is driven by the outcome of
task-related decision processes and is proposed to facilitate ensuing behaviors
and to help optimize task performance (exploitation). When utility in the task
wanes, LC neurons exhibit a tonic activity mode, associated with disengagement
from the current task and a search for alternative behaviors (exploration).
Monkey LC receives prominent, direct inputs from the anterior cingulate (ACC) and
orbitofrontal cortices (OFC), both of which are thought to monitor task-related
utility. We propose that these frontal areas produce the above patterns of LC
activity to optimize utility on both short and long timescales.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135709 
PMID: 16022602  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:377-401.

The plastic human brain cortex.

Pascual-Leone A(1), Amedi A, Fregni F, Merabet LB.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Non-Invasive Brain Stimulation, Department of Neurology, Beth
Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02215, USA.
apleone@bidmc.harvard.edu

Plasticity is an intrinsic property of the human brain and represents evolution's
invention to enable the nervous system to escape the restrictions of its own
genome and thus adapt to environmental pressures, physiologic changes, and
experiences. Dynamic shifts in the strength of preexisting connections across
distributed neural networks, changes in task-related cortico-cortical and
cortico-subcortical coherence and modifications of the mapping between behavior
and neural activity take place in response to changes in afferent input or
efferent demand. Such rapid, ongoing changes may be followed by the establishment
of new connections through dendritic growth and arborization. However, they
harbor the danger that the evolving pattern of neural activation may in itself
lead to abnormal behavior. Plasticity is the mechanism for development and
learning, as much as a cause of pathology. The challenge we face is to learn
enough about the mechanisms of plasticity to modulate them to achieve the best
behavioral outcome for a given subject.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144216 
PMID: 16022601  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:357-76.

Neural network dynamics.

Vogels TP(1), Rajan K, Abbott LF.

Author information: 
(1)Volen Center for Complex Systems and Department of Biology, Brandeis
University, Waltham, MA 02454-9110, USA. vogels@brandeis.edu

Neural network modeling is often concerned with stimulus-driven responses, but
most of the activity in the brain is internally generated. Here, we review
network models of internally generated activity, focusing on three types of
network dynamics: (a) sustained responses to transient stimuli, which provide a
model of working memory; (b) oscillatory network activity; and (c) chaotic
activity, which models complex patterns of background spiking in cortical and
other circuits. We also review propagation of stimulus-driven activity through
spontaneously active networks. Exploring these aspects of neural network dynamics
is critical for understanding how neural circuits produce cognitive function.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135637 
PMID: 16022600  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:327-55.

Molecular gradients and development of retinotopic maps.

McLaughlin T(1), O'Leary DD.

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Laboratory, The Salk Institute, La Jolla, CA 92037,
USA. mclaughlin@salk.edu

Gradients of axon guidance molecules have long been postulated to control the
development of the organization of neural connections into topographic maps. We
review progress in identifying molecules required for mapping and the mechanisms 
by which they act, focusing on the visual system, the predominant model for map
development. The Eph family of receptor tyrosine kinases and their ligands, the
ephrins, remain the only molecules that meet all criteria for graded topographic 
guidance molecules, although others fulfill some criteria. Recent reports further
define their modes of action and new roles for them, including EphB/ephrin-B
control of dorsal-ventral mapping, bidirectional signaling of EphAs/ephrin-As,
bifunctional action of ephrins as attractants or repellents in a
context-dependent manner, and complex interactions between multiple guidance
molecules. In addition, spontaneous patterned neural activity has recently been
shown to be required for map refinement during a brief critical period. We
speculate on additional activities required for map development and suggest a
synthesis of molecular and cellular mechanisms within the context of the
complexities of map development.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135714 
PMID: 16022599  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:303-26.

The circuitry of V1 and V2: integration of color, form, and motion.

Sincich LC(1), Horton JC.

Author information: 
(1)Beckman Vision Center, University of California-San Francisco, San Francisco, 
CA 94143, USA. sincichl@vision.ucsf.edu

Primary and secondary visual cortex (V1 and V2) form the foundation of the
cortical visual system. V1 transforms information received from the lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN) and distributes it to separate domains in V2 for
transmission to higher visual areas. During the past 20 years, schemes for the
functional organization of V1 and V2 have been based on a tripartite framework
developed by Livingstone & Hubel (1988) . Since then, new anatomical data have
accumulated concerning V1's input, its internal circuitry, and its output to V2. 
These new data, along with physiological and imaging studies, now make it likely 
that the visual attributes of color, form, and motion are not neatly segregated
by V1 into different stripe compartments in V2. Instead, there are just two main 
streams, originating from cytochrome oxidase patches and interpatches, that
project to V2. Each stream is composed of a mixture of magno, parvo, and konio
geniculate signals. Further studies are required to elucidate how the patches and
interpatches differ in the output they convey to extrastriate cortex.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135731 
PMID: 16022598  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:275-302.

Olfactory memory formation in Drosophila: from molecular to systems neuroscience.

Davis RL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Department of Psychiatry and
Behavioral Sciences, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
rdavis@bcm.tmc.edu

The olfactory nervous system of insects and mammals exhibits many similarities,
which suggests that the mechanisms for olfactory learning may be shared.
Molecular genetic investigations of Drosophila learning have uncovered numerous
genes whose gene products are essential for olfactory memory formation. Recent
studies of the products of these genes have continued to expand the range of
molecular processes known to underlie memory formation. Recent research has also 
broadened the neuroanatomical areas thought to mediate olfactory learning to
include the antennal lobes in addition to a previously accepted and central role 
for the mushroom bodies. The roles for neurons extrinsic to the mushroom body
neurons are becoming better defined. Finally, the genes identified to participate
in Drosophila olfactory learning have conserved roles in mammalian organisms,
highlighting the value of Drosophila for gene discovery.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135651 
PMID: 16022597  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:251-74.

Mechanisms of vertebrate synaptogenesis.

Waites CL(1), Craig AM, Garner CC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Science, Nancy Pritzker Laboratory,
Stanford University, Palo Alto, CA 94304-5485, USA. clarissa@stanford.edu

The formation of synapses in the vertebrate central nervous system is a complex
process that occurs over a protracted period of development. Recent work has
begun to unravel the mysteries of synaptogenesis, demonstrating the existence of 
multiple molecules that influence not only when and where synapses form but also 
synaptic specificity and stability. Some of these molecules act at a distance,
steering axons to their correct receptive fields and promoting neuronal
differentiation and maturation, whereas others act at the time of contact,
providing positional information about the appropriateness of targets and/or
inductive signals that trigger the cascade of events leading to synapse
formation. In addition, correlated synaptic activity provides critical
information about the appropriateness of synaptic connections, thereby
influencing synapse stability and elimination. Although synapse formation and
elimination are hallmarks of early development, these processes are also
fundamental to learning, memory, and cognition in the mature brain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144336 
PMID: 16022596  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:223-50.

Adult neurogenesis in the mammalian central nervous system.

Ming GL(1), Song H.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cell Engineering, Departments of Neurology and Neuroscience,
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
gming1@bs.jhmi.edu

Forty years since the initial discovery of neurogenesis in the postnatal rat
hippocampus, investigators have now firmly established that active neurogenesis
from neural progenitors continues throughout life in discrete regions of the
central nervous systems (CNS) of all mammals, including humans. Significant
progress has been made over the past few years in understanding the developmental
process and regulation of adult neurogenesis, including proliferation, fate
specification, neuronal maturation, targeting, and synaptic integration of the
newborn neurons. The function of this evolutionarily conserved phenomenon,
however, remains elusive in mammals. Adult neurogenesis represents a striking
example of structural plasticity in the mature CNS environment. Advances in our
understanding of adult neurogenesis will not only shed light on the basic
principles of adult plasticity, but also may lead to strategies for cell
replacement therapy after injury or degenerative neurological diseases.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.051804.101459 
PMID: 16022595  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:191-222.

Growth and survival signals controlling sympathetic nervous system development.

Glebova NO(1), Ginty DD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. nglebov@jhmi.edu

The precise coordination of the many events in nervous system development is
absolutely critical for the correct establishment of functional circuits. The
postganglionic sympathetic neuron has been an amenable model for studying
peripheral nervous system formation. Factors that control several developmental
events, including multiple stages of axon extension, neuron survival and death,
dendritogenesis, synaptogenesis, and establishment of functional diversity, have 
been identified in this neuron type. This knowledge allows us to integrate the
various intricate processes involved in the formation of a functional sympathetic
nervous system and thereby create a paradigm for understanding neuronal
development in general.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135659 
PMID: 16022594  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:157-89.

Structure and function of visual area MT.

Born RT(1), Bradley DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115-5701,
USA. rborn@hms.harvard.edu

The small visual area known as MT or V5 has played a major role in our
understanding of the primate cerebral cortex. This area has been historically
important in the concept of cortical processing streams and the idea that
different visual areas constitute highly specialized representations of visual
information. MT has also proven to be a fertile culture dish--full of direction- 
and disparity-selective neurons--exploited by many labs to study the neural
circuits underlying computations of motion and depth and to examine the
relationship between neural activity and perception. Here we attempt a synthetic 
overview of the rich literature on MT with the goal of answering the question,
What does MT do?

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131052 
PMID: 16022593  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:127-56.

Axon retraction and degeneration in development and disease.

Luo L(1), O'Leary DD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Neurosciences Program, Stanford University,
Stanford, CA 94305, USA. lluo@stanford.edu

The selective elimination of axons, dendrites, axon and dendrite branches, and
synapses, without loss of the parent neurons, occurs during normal development of
the nervous system as well as in response to injury or disease in the adult. The 
widespread developmental phenomena of exuberant axonal projections and synaptic
connections require both small-scale and large-scale axon pruning to generate
precise adult connectivity, and they provide a mechanism for neural plasticity in
the developing and adult nervous system, as well as a mechanism to evolve
differences between species in a projection system. Such pruning is also required
to remove axonal connections damaged in the adult, to stabilize the affected
neural circuits, and to initiate their repair. Pruning occurs through either
retraction or degeneration. Here we review examples of these phenomena and
consider potential cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie axon
retraction and degeneration and how they might relate to each other in
development and disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135632 
PMID: 16022592  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:89-108.

Large-scale genomic approaches to brain development and circuitry.

Hatten ME(1), Heintz N.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Developmental Neurobiology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The
Rockefeller University, New York, NY 10021, USA. hatten@rockefeller.edu

Over the past two decades, molecular genetic studies have enabled a common
conceptual framework for the development and basic function of the nervous
system. These studies, and the pioneering efforts of mouse geneticists and
neuroscientists to identify and clone genes for spontaneous mouse mutants, have
provided a paradigm for understanding complex processes of the vertebrate brain. 
Gene cloning for human brain malformations and degenerative disorders identified 
other important central nervous system (CNS) genes. However, because many
debilitating human disorders are genetically complex, phenotypic screens are
difficult to design. This difficulty has led to large-scale, genomic approaches
to discover genes that are uniquely expressed in brain circuits and regions that 
control complex behaviors. In this review, we summarize current phenotype- and
genotype-driven approaches to discover novel CNS-expressed genes, as well as
current approaches to carry out large-scale, gene-expression screens in the CNS.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131436 
PMID: 16022591  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:57-87.

Molecular pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease.

Moore DJ(1), West AB, Dawson VL, Dawson TM.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Cell Engineering, Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. dmoore20@jhmi.edu

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative movement disorder
that results primarily from the death of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia
nigra. Although the etiology of PD is incompletely understood, the recent
discovery of genes associated with rare monogenic forms of the disease, together 
with earlier studies and new experimental animal models, has provided important
and novel insight into the molecular pathways involved in disease pathogenesis.
Increasing evidence indicates that deficits in mitochondrial function, oxidative 
and nitrosative stress, the accumulation of aberrant or misfolded proteins, and
ubiquitin-proteasome system dysfunction may represent the principal molecular
pathways or events that commonly underlie the pathogenesis of sporadic and
familial forms of PD .

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135718 
PMID: 16022590  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2005;28:1-23.

Genetics of brain structure and intelligence.

Toga AW(1), Thompson PM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuro Imaging, Department of Neurology, School of Medicine,
University of California-Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.
toga@loni.ucla.edu

Genetic influences on brain morphology and IQ are well studied. A variety of
sophisticated brain-mapping approaches relating genetic influences on brain
structure and intelligence establishes a regional distribution for this
relationship that is consistent with behavioral studies. We highlight those
studies that illustrate the complex cortical patterns associated with measures of
cognitive ability. A measure of cognitive ability, known as g, has been shown
highly heritable across many studies. We argue that these genetic links are
partly mediated by brain structure that is likewise under strong genetic control.
Other factors, such as the environment, obviously play a role, but the
predominant determinant appears to be genetic.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.28.061604.135655 
PMID: 15651931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:723-49.

Unraveling the mechanisms involved in motor neuron degeneration in ALS.

Bruijn LI(1), Miller TM, Cleveland DW.

Author information: 
(1)ALS Association, Guilford, Connecticut 06437, USA. lbruijn@snet.net

Although Charcot described amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) more than 130
years ago, the mechanism underlying the characteristic selective degeneration and
death of motor neurons in this common adult motor neuron disease has remained a
mystery. There is no effective remedy for this progressive, fatal disorder.
Modern genetics has now identified mutations in one gene [Cu/Zn superoxide
dismutase (SOD1)] as a primary cause and implicated others [encoding
neurofilaments, cytoplasmic dynein and its processivity factor dynactin, and
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)] as contributors to, or causes of,
motor neuron diseases. These insights have enabled development of model systems
to test hypotheses of disease mechanism and potential therapies. Along with
errors in the handling of synaptic glutamate and the potential excitotoxic
response this provokes, these model systems highlight the involvement of
nonneuronal cells in disease progression and provide new therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144244 
PMID: 15217349  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:697-722.

How the brain processes social information: searching for the social brain.

Insel TR(1), Fernald RD.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
insel@mail.nih.gov

Because information about gender, kin, and social status are essential for
reproduction and survival, it seems likely that specialized neural mechanisms
have evolved to process social information. This review describes recent studies 
of four aspects of social information processing: (a) perception of social
signals via the vomeronasal system, (b) formation of social memory via long-term 
filial imprinting and short-term recognition, (c) motivation for parental
behavior and pair bonding, and (d) the neural consequences of social experience. 
Results from these studies and some recent functional imaging studies in human
subjects begin to define the circuitry of a "social brain." Such
neurodevelopmental disorders as autism and schizophrenia are characterized by
abnormal social cognition and corresponding deficits in social behavior; thus
social neuroscience offers an important opportunity for translational research
with an impact on public health.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144148 
PMID: 15217348  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:679-96.

Visual motor computations in insects.

Srinivasan MV(1), Zhang S.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Visual Science, Research School of Biological Sciences, Australian 
National University, P.O. Box 475, Canberra, A.C.T. 2601, Australia.
M.Srinivasan@anu.edu.au

With their relatively simple nervous systems and purpose-designed behaviors and
reflexes, insects are an excellent organism in which to investigate how visual
information is acquired and processed to guide locomotion and navigation. Flies
maintain a straight course and monitor their motion through the environment by
sensing the patterns of optic flow induced in the eyes. Bees negotiate narrow
gaps by balancing the speeds of the images in their two eyes, and they control
flight speed by holding constant the average image velocity as seen with their
two eyes. Bees achieve a smooth landing on a horizontal surface by holding the
image velocity of the surface constant during approach, thus ensuring that flight
speed is automatically close to zero at touchdown. Foraging bees estimate the
distance that they have traveled to reach a food source by integrating the optic 
flow experienced en route; this integration gives them a visually driven
"odometer." Insects have also evolved sophisticated visuomotor mechanisms for
pursuing prey or mates and possibly for concealing their own motion while
shadowing objects of interest.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144343 
PMID: 15217347  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:649-77.

The human visual cortex.

Grill-Spector K(1), Malach R.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Stanford University, Stanford,
California 94305-2130, USA. kalanit.grill-spector@stanford.edu

The discovery and analysis of cortical visual areas is a major accomplishment of 
visual neuroscience. In the past decade the use of noninvasive functional
imaging, particularly functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), has
dramatically increased our detailed knowledge of the functional organization of
the human visual cortex and its relation to visual perception. The fMRI method
offers a major advantage over other techniques applied in neuroscience by
providing a large-scale neuroanatomical perspective that stems from its ability
to image the entire brain essentially at once. This bird's eye view has the
potential to reveal large-scale principles within the very complex plethora of
visual areas. Thus, it could arrange the entire constellation of human visual
areas in a unified functional organizational framework. Here we review recent
findings and methods employed to uncover the functional properties of the human
visual cortex focusing on two themes: functional specialization and hierarchical 
processing.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144220 
PMID: 15217346  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:611-47.

Attentional modulation of visual processing.

Reynolds JH(1), Chelazzi L.

Author information: 
(1)Systems Neurobiology Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037-1099, USA. reynolds@salk.edu

Single-unit recording studies in the macaque have carefully documented the
modulatory effects of attention on the response properties of visual cortical
neurons. Attention produces qualitatively different effects on firing rate,
depending on whether a stimulus appears alone or accompanied by distracters.
Studies of contrast gain control in anesthetized mammals have found parallel
patterns of results when the luminance contrast of a stimulus increases. This
finding suggests that attention has co-opted the circuits that mediate contrast
gain control and that it operates by increasing the effective contrast of the
attended stimulus. Consistent with this idea, microstimulation of the frontal eye
fields, one of several areas that control the allocation of spatial attention,
induces spatially local increases in sensitivity both at the behavioral level and
among neurons in area V4, where endogenously generated attention increases
contrast sensitivity. Studies in the slice have begun to explain how modulatory
signals might cause such increases in sensitivity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131039 
PMID: 15217345  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:581-609.

Cerebellum-dependent learning: the role of multiple plasticity mechanisms.

Boyden ES(1), Katoh A, Raymond JL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305,
USA. boyden@stanford.edu

The cerebellum is an evolutionarily conserved structure critical for motor
learning in vertebrates. The model that has influenced much of the work in the
field for the past 30 years suggests that motor learning is mediated by a single 
plasticity mechanism in the cerebellum: long-term depression (LTD) of parallel
fiber synapses onto Purkinje cells. However, recent studies of simple behaviors
such as the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) indicate that multiple plasticity
mechanisms contribute to cerebellum-dependent learning. Multiple plasticity
mechanisms may provide the flexibility required to store memories over different 
timescales, regulate the dynamics of movement, and allow bidirectional changes in
movement amplitude. These plasticity mechanisms must act in combination with
appropriate information-coding strategies to equip motor-learning systems with
the ability to express learning in correct contexts. Studies of the patterns of
generalization of motor learning in the VOR provide insight about the coding of
information in neurons at sites of plasticity. These principles emerging from
studies of the VOR are consistent with results concerning more complex behaviors 
and thus may reflect general principles of cerebellar function.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144238 
PMID: 15217344  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:549-79.

Critical period regulation.

Hensch TK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory for Neuronal Circuit Development, Critical Period Mechanisms
Research Group, RIKEN Brain Science Institute, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako-shi, Saitama
351-0198, Japan. hensch@riken.jp

Neuronal circuits are shaped by experience during critical periods of early
postnatal life. The ability to control the timing, duration, and closure of these
heightened levels of brain plasticity has recently become experimentally
accessible, especially in the developing visual system. This review summarizes
our current understanding of known critical periods across several systems and
species. It delineates a number of emerging principles: functional competition
between inputs, role for electrical activity, structural consolidation,
regulation by experience (not simply age), special role for inhibition in the
CNS, potent influence of attention and motivation, unique timing and duration, as
well as use of distinct molecular mechanisms across brain regions and the
potential for reactivation in adulthood. A deeper understanding of critical
periods will open new avenues to "nurture the brain"-from international efforts
to link brain science and education to improving recovery from injury and
devising new strategies for therapy and lifelong learning.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144327 
PMID: 15217343  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:509-47.

The synaptic vesicle cycle.

Sudhof TC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Basic Neuroscience, Department of Molecular Genetics, Howard Hughes
Medical Institute, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, Texas
75390-9111, USA.Thomas. Sudhof@UTSouthwestern.edu

Neurotransmitter release is mediated by exocytosis of synaptic vesicles at the
presynaptic active zone of nerve terminals. To support rapid and repeated rounds 
of release, synaptic vesicles undergo a trafficking cycle. The focal point of the
vesicle cycle is Ca2+-triggered exocytosis that is followed by different routes
of endocytosis and recycling. Recycling then leads to the docking and priming of 
the vesicles for another round of exo- and endocytosis. Recent studies have led
to a better definition than previously available of how Ca2+ triggers exocytosis 
and how vesicles recycle. In particular, insight into how Munc18-1 collaborates
with SNARE proteins in fusion, how the vesicular Ca2+ sensor synaptotagmin 1
triggers fast release, and how the vesicular Rab3 protein regulates release by
binding to the active zone proteins RIM1 alpha and RIM2 alpha has advanced our
understanding of neurotransmitter release. The present review attempts to relate 
these molecular data with physiological results in an emerging view of nerve
terminals as macromolecular machines.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131412 
PMID: 15217342  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:487-507.

Cortical neural prosthetics.

Schwartz AB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurobiology and Bioengineering, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15203, USA. abs21@pitt.edu

Control of prostheses using cortical signals is based on three elements: chronic 
microelectrode arrays, extraction algorithms, and prosthetic effectors. Arrays of
microelectrodes are permanently implanted in cerebral cortex. These arrays must
record populations of single- and multiunit activity indefinitely. Information
containing position and velocity correlates of animate movement needs to be
extracted continuously in real time from the recorded activity. Prosthetic arms, 
the current effectors used in this work, need to have the agility and
configuration of natural arms. Demonstrations using closed-loop control show that
subjects change their neural activity to improve performance with these devices. 
Adaptive-learning algorithms that capitalize on these improvements show that this
technology has the capability of restoring much of the arm movement lost with
immobilizing deficits.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144233 
PMID: 15217341  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:453-85.

The neurobiology of the ascidian tadpole larva: recent developments in an ancient
chordate.

Meinertzhagen IA(1), Lemaire P, Okamura Y.

Author information: 
(1)Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, Massachusetts 02543, USA. iam@dal.ca

With little more than 330 cells, two thirds within the sensory vesicle, the CNS
of the tadpole larva of the ascidian Ciona intestinalis provides us with a
chordate nervous system in miniature. Neurulation, neurogenesis and its genetic
bases, as well as the gene expression territories of this tiny constituency of
cells all follow a chordate plan, giving rise in some cases to frank structural
homologies with the vertebrate brain. Recent advances are fueled by the release
of the genome and EST expression databases and by the development of methods to
transfect embryos by electroporation. Immediate prospects to test the function of
neural genes are based on the isolation of mutants by classical genetics and
insertional mutagenesis, as well as by the disruption of gene function by
morpholino antisense oligo-nucleotides. Coupled with high-speed video analysis of
larval swimming, optophysiological methods offer the prospect to analyze at
single-cell level the function of a CNS built on a vertebrate plan.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144255 
PMID: 15217340  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:419-51.

Neuronal circuits of the neocortex.

Douglas RJ(1), Martin KA.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neuroinformatics, University/ETH Zurich, Zurich 8057,
Switzerland. rjd@ini.phys.ethz.ch

We explore the extent to which neocortical circuits generalize, i.e., to what
extent can neocortical neurons and the circuits they form be considered as
canonical? We find that, as has long been suspected by cortical neuroanatomists, 
the same basic laminar and tangential organization of the excitatory neurons of
the neocortex is evident wherever it has been sought. Similarly, the inhibitory
neurons show characteristic morphology and patterns of connections throughout the
neocortex. We offer a simple model of cortical processing that is consistent with
the major features of cortical circuits: The superficial layer neurons within
local patches of cortex, and within areas, cooperate to explore all possible
interpretations of different cortical input and cooperatively select an
interpretation consistent with their various cortical and subcortical inputs.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144152 
PMID: 15217339  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:393-418.

Electrical synapses in the mammalian brain.

Connors BW(1), Long MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, 
USA. BWC@Brown.edu

Many neurons in the mammalian central nervous system communicate through
electrical synapses, defined here as gap junction-mediated connections.
Electrical synapses are reciprocal pathways for ionic current and small organic
molecules. They are often strong enough to mediate close synchronization of
subthreshold and spiking activity among clusters of neurons. The most thoroughly 
studied electrical synapses occur between excitatory projection neurons of the
inferior olivary nucleus and between inhibitory interneurons of the neocortex,
hippocampus, and thalamus. All these synapses require the gap junction protein
connexin36 (Cx36) for robust electrical coupling. Cx36 appears to interconnect
neurons exclusively, and it is expressed widely along the mammalian neuraxis,
implying that there are undiscovered electrical synapses throughout the central
nervous system. Some central neurons may be electrically coupled by other
connexin types or by pannexins, a newly described family of gap junction
proteins. Electrical synapses are a ubiquitous yet underappreciated feature of
neural circuits in the mammalian brain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131128 
PMID: 15217338  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:369-92.

Maps in the brain: what can we learn from them?

Chklovskii DB(1), Koulakov AA.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, New York 11724, USA.
mitya@cshl.edu, akula@cshl.edu

In mammalian visual cortex, neurons are organized according to their functional
properties into multiple maps such as retinotopic, ocular dominance, orientation 
preference, direction of motion, and others. What determines the organization of 
cortical maps? We argue that cortical maps reflect neuronal connectivity in
intracortical circuits. Because connecting distant neurons requires costly wiring
(i.e., axons and dendrites), there is an evolutionary pressure to place connected
neurons as close to each other as possible. Then, cortical maps may be viewed as 
solutions that minimize wiring cost for given intracortical connectivity. These
solutions can help us in inferring intracortical connectivity and, ultimately, in
understanding the function of the visual system.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144226 
PMID: 15217337  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:341-68.

The Nogo signaling pathway for regeneration block.

He Z(1), Koprivica V.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, Children's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115, USA. zhigang.he@tch.harvard.edu

A hostile environment and decreased regenerative capacity may contribute to the
failure of axon regeneration in the adult central nervous system. Recent studies 
leading to the identification of several myelin-associated inhibitors and their
signaling molecules provide opportunitities to assess the contribution of these
inhibitory molecules in restricting axon regeneration. These findings may
ultimately allow for the development of strategies to alleviate the inhibitory
effects of such molecules in an effort to encourage axon regeneration after
spinal cord and brain injury.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144340 
PMID: 15217336  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:307-40.

The neural basis of temporal processing.

Mauk MD(1), Buonomano DV.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Anatomy, University of Texas, Houston Medical
School, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. m.mauk@uth.tmc.edu

A complete understanding of sensory and motor processing requires
characterization of how the nervous system processes time in the range of tens to
hundreds of milliseconds (ms). Temporal processing on this scale is required for 
simple sensory problems, such as interval, duration, and motion discrimination,
as well as complex forms of sensory processing, such as speech recognition.
Timing is also required for a wide range of motor tasks from eyelid conditioning 
to playing the piano. Here we review the behavioral, electrophysiological, and
theoretical literature on the neural basis of temporal processing. These data
suggest that temporal processing is likely to be distributed among different
structures, rather than relying on a centralized timing area, as has been
suggested in internal clock models. We also discuss whether temporal processing
relies on specialized neural mechanisms, which perform temporal computations
independent of spatial ones. We suggest that, given the intricate link between
temporal and spatial information in most sensory and motor tasks, timing and
spatial processing are intrinsic properties of neural function, and specialized
timing mechanisms such as delay lines, oscillators, or a spectrum of different
time constants are not required. Rather temporal processing may rely on
state-dependent changes in network dynamics.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144247 
PMID: 15217335  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:279-306.

The medial temporal lobe.

Squire LR(1), Stark CE, Clark RE.

Author information: 
(1)Veterans Affairs Healthcare System, San Diego, California 92161, USA.
lsquire@ucsd.edu

The medial temporal lobe includes a system of anatomically related structures
that are essential for declarative memory (conscious memory for facts and
events). The system consists of the hippocampal region (CA fields, dentate gyrus,
and subicular complex) and the adjacent perirhinal, entorhinal, and
parahippocampal cortices. Here, we review findings from humans, monkeys, and
rodents that illuminate the function of these structures. Our analysis draws on
studies of human memory impairment and animal models of memory impairment, as
well as neurophysiological and neuroimaging data, to show that this system (a) is
principally concerned with memory, (b) operates with neocortex to establish and
maintain long-term memory, and (c) ultimately, through a process of
consolidation, becomes independent of long-term memory, though questions remain
about the role of perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices in this process and
about spatial memory in rodents. Data from neurophysiology, neuroimaging, and
neuroanatomy point to a division of labor within the medial temporal lobe.
However, the available data do not support simple dichotomies between the
functions of the hippocampus and the adjacent medial temporal cortex, such as
associative versus nonassociative memory, episodic versus semantic memory, and
recollection versus familiarity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144130 
PMID: 15217334  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:247-78.

Cellular mechanisms of neuronal population oscillations in the hippocampus in
vitro.

Traub RD(1), Bibbig A, LeBeau FE, Buhl EH, Whittington MA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, State University of New York
Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, New York 11203, USA.
roger.traub@downstate.edu

A variety of population oscillations, at frequencies approximately 5 Hz up to 200
Hz and above, can be induced in hippocampal slices either by (a) manipulation of 
the ionic environment, or (b) by stimulation of metabotropic receptors; brief
oscillations can even occur spontaneously. In this review, we consider in vitro
theta (4-12 Hz), gamma/beta (15-70 Hz), and very fast oscillations (VFO) (>70
Hz). Many in vitro oscillations are gated by synaptic inhibition but are
influenced by electrical coupling as well; one type depends solely on electrical 
coupling. For some oscillations dependent upon inhibition, the detailed firing
patterns of interneurons can influence long-range synchronization. Two sorts of
electrical coupling are important in modulating or generating various in vitro
oscillations: (a) between interneurons, primarily between dendrites; and (b)
between axons of pyramidal neurons. VFO can exist in isolation or can act as
generators of gamma frequency oscillations. Oscillations at gamma frequencies and
below probably create conditions under which synaptic plasticity can occur,
between selected neurons-even those separated by significant axonal conduction
delays.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144303 
PMID: 15217333  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:223-46.

Ubiquitin-dependent regulation of the synapse.

DiAntonio A(1), Hicke L.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Pharmacology, Washington University School
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. diantonio@wustl.edu

Posttranslational modification of cellular proteins by the covalent attachment of
ubiquitin regulates protein stability, activity, and localization. Ubiquitination
is rapid and reversible and is a potent mechanism for the spatial and temporal
control of protein activity. By sculpting the molecular composition of the
synapse, this versatile posttranslational modification shapes the pattern,
activity, and plasticity of synaptic connections. Synaptic processes regulated by
ubiquitination, as well as ubiquitination enzymes and their targets at the
synapse, are being identified by genetic, biochemical, and electrophysiological
analyses. This work provides tantalizing hints that neuronal activity
collaborates with ubiquitination pathways to regulate the structure and function 
of synapses.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144317 
PMID: 15217332  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:193-222.

Genetic approaches to the study of anxiety.

Gordon JA(1), Hen R.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurobiology and Behavior, Department of Psychiatry, Columbia
University, New York State Psychiatric Institute, New York, NY 10032, USA.
jg343@columbia.edu

Anxiety and its disorders have long been known to be familial. Recently, genetic 
approaches have been used to clarify the role of heredity in the development of
anxiety and to probe its neurobiological underpinnings. Twin studies have shown
that a significant proportion of the liability to develop any given anxiety
disorder is due to genetic factors. Ongoing efforts to map anxiety-related loci
in both animals and humans are underway with limited success to date. Animal
models have played a large role in furthering our understanding of the genetic
basis of anxiety, demonstrating that the genetic factors underlying anxiety are
complex and varied. Recent advances in molecular genetic techniques have allowed 
increasing specificity in the manipulation of gene expression within the central 
nervous system of the mouse. With this increasing specificity has come the
ability to ask and answer precise questions about the mechanisms of anxiety and
its treatment.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144212 
PMID: 15217331  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:169-92.

The mirror-neuron system.

Rizzolatti G(1), Craighero L.

Author information: 
(1)Dipartimento di Neuroscienze, Sezione di Fisiologia, via Volturno, 3,
Universita di Parma 43100, Parma, Italy. giacomo.rizzolatti@unipr.it

A category of stimuli of great importance for primates, humans in particular, is 
that formed by actions done by other individuals. If we want to survive, we must 
understand the actions of others. Furthermore, without action understanding,
social organization is impossible. In the case of humans, there is another
faculty that depends on the observation of others' actions: imitation learning.
Unlike most species, we are able to learn by imitation, and this faculty is at
the basis of human culture. In this review we present data on a
neurophysiological mechanism--the mirror-neuron mechanism--that appears to play a
fundamental role in both action understanding and imitation. We describe first
the functional properties of mirror neurons in monkeys. We review next the
characteristics of the mirror-neuron system in humans. We stress, in particular, 
those properties specific to the human mirror-neuron system that might explain
the human capacity to learn by imitation. We conclude by discussing the
relationship between the mirror-neuron system and language.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144230 
PMID: 15217330  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:145-67.

Plasticity of the spinal neural circuitry after injury.

Edgerton VR(1), Tillakaratne NJ, Bigbee AJ, de Leon RD, Roy RR.

Author information: 
(1)Brain Research Institute, University of California, Los Angeles, California
90095, USA. vre@ucla.edu

Motor function is severely disrupted following spinal cord injury (SCI). The
spinal circuitry, however, exhibits a great degree of automaticity and plasticity
after an injury. Automaticity implies that the spinal circuits have some capacity
to perform complex motor tasks following the disruption of supraspinal input, and
evidence for plasticity suggests that biochemical changes at the cellular level
in the spinal cord can be induced in an activity-dependent manner that correlates
with sensorimotor recovery. These characteristics should be strongly considered
as advantageous in developing therapeutic strategies to assist in the recovery of
locomotor function following SCI. Rehabilitative efforts combining locomotor
training pharmacological means and/or spinal cord electrical stimulation
paradigms will most likely result in more effective methods of recovery than
using only one intervention.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144308 
PMID: 15217329  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:107-44.

Desensitization of G protein-coupled receptors and neuronal functions.

Gainetdinov RR(1), Premont RT, Bohn LM, Lefkowitz RJ, Caron MG.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute Laboratories, Department of Cell Biology, Duke
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.
r.gainetdinov@cellbio.duke.edu

G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) have proven to be the most highly favorable
class of drug targets in modern pharmacology. Over 90% of nonsensory GPCRs are
expressed in the brain, where they play important roles in numerous neuronal
functions. GPCRs can be desensitized following activation by agonists by becoming
phosphorylated by members of the family of G protein-coupled receptor kinases
(GRKs). Phosphorylated receptors are then bound by arrestins, which prevent
further stimulation of G proteins and downstream signaling pathways. Discussed in
this review are recent progress in understanding basics of GPCR desensitization, 
novel functional roles, patterns of brain expression, and receptor specificity of
GRKs and beta arrestins in major brain functions. In particular, screening of
genetically modified mice lacking individual GRKs or beta arrestins for
alterations in behavioral and biochemical responses to cocaine and morphine has
revealed a functional specificity in dopamine and mu-opioid receptor regulation
of locomotion and analgesia. An important and specific role of GRKs and beta
arrestins in regulating physiological responsiveness to psychostimulants and
morphine suggests potential involvement of these molecules in certain brain
disorders, such as addiction, Parkinson's disease, mood disorders, and
schizophrenia. Furthermore, the utility of a pharmacological strategy aimed at
targeting this GPCR desensitization machinery to regulate brain functions can be 
envisaged.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144206 
PMID: 15217328  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:79-105.

E pluribus unum, ex uno plura: quantitative and single-gene perspectives on the
study of behavior.

Greenspan RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neurosciences Institute, San Diego, California, USA. greenspan@nsi.edu

Genetic studies of behavior have traditionally come in two flavors: quantitative 
genetic studies of natural variants and single-gene studies of induced mutants.
Each employed different techniques and methods of analysis toward the common,
ultimate goal of understanding how genes influence behavior. With the advent of
new genomic technologies, and also the realization that mechanisms underlying
behavior involve a considerable degree of complex gene interaction, the
traditionally separate strands of behavior genetics are merging into a single,
synthetic strategy.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144323 
PMID: 15217327  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:53-77.

Sensory signals in neural populations underlying tactile perception and
manipulation.

Goodwin AW(1), Wheat HE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University of Melbourne, Parkville,
Victoria 3010, Australia. a.goodwin@unimelb.edu.au

For humans to manipulate an object successfully, the motor control system must
have accurate information about parameters such as the shape of the stimulus, its
position of contact on the skin, and the magnitude and direction of contact
force. The same information is required for perception during haptic exploration 
of an object. Much of these data are relayed by the mechanoreceptive afferents
innervating the glabrous skin of the digits. Single afferent responses are
modulated by all the relevant stimulus parameters. Thus, only in complete
population reconstructions is it clear how each of the parameters can be signaled
to the brain independently when many are changing simultaneously, as occurs in
most normal movements or haptic exploration. Modeling population responses
reveals how resolution is affected by neural noise and intrinsic properties of
the population such as the pattern and density of innervation and the covariance 
of response variability.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131032 
PMID: 15217326  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:29-51.

Control of central synaptic specificity in insect sensory neurons.

Blagburn JM(1), Bacon JP.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Neurobiology, Department of Physiology, Medical Sciences Campus, 
University of Puerto Rico, San Juan, Puerto Rico 00901-1123.
jmblagbu@neurobio.upr.clu.edu

Synaptic specificity is the culmination of several processes, beginning with the 
establishment of neuronal subtype identity, followed by navigation of the axon to
the correct subdivision of neuropil, and finally, the cell-cell recognition of
appropriate synaptic partners. In this review we summarize the work on sensory
neurons in crickets, cockroaches, moths, and fruit flies that establishes some of
the principles and molecular mechanisms involved in the control of synaptic
specificity. The identity of a sensory neuron is controlled by combinatorial
expression of transcription factors, the products of patterning and proneural
genes. In the nervous system, sensory axon projections are anatomically
segregated according to modality, stimulus quality, and cell-body position. A
variety of cell-surface and intracellular signaling molecules are used to achieve
this. Synaptic target recognition is also controlled by transcription factors
such as Engrailed and may be, in part, mediated by cadherin-like molecules.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144143 
PMID: 15217325  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2004;27:1-28.

The amygdala modulates the consolidation of memories of emotionally arousing
experiences.

McGaugh JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, Department of Neurobiology
and Behavior, University of California, Irvine 92697-3800, USA.jlmcgaug@uci.edu

Converging findings of animal and human studies provide compelling evidence that 
the amygdala is critically involved in enabling us to acquire and retain lasting 
memories of emotional experiences. This review focuses primarily on the findings 
of research investigating the role of the amygdala in modulating the
consolidation of long-term memories. Considerable evidence from animal studies
investigating the effects of posttraining systemic or intra-amygdala infusions of
hormones and drugs, as well as selective lesions of specific amygdala nuclei,
indicates that (a) the amygdala mediates the memory-modulating effects of adrenal
stress hormones and several classes of neurotransmitters; (b) the effects are
selectively mediated by the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA); (c) the
influences involve interactions of several neuromodulatory systems within the BLA
that converge in influencing noradrenergic and muscarinic cholinergic activation;
(d) the BLA modulates memory consolidation via efferents to other brain regions, 
including the caudate nucleus, nucleus accumbens, and cortex; and (e) the BLA
modulates the consolidation of memory of many different kinds of information. The
findings of human brain imaging studies are consistent with those of animal
studies in suggesting that activation of the amygdala influences the
consolidation of long-term memory; the degree of activation of the amygdala by
emotional arousal during encoding of emotionally arousing material (either
pleasant or unpleasant) correlates highly with subsequent recall. The activation 
of neuromodulatory systems affecting the BLA and its projections to other brain
regions involved in processing different kinds of information plays a key role in
enabling emotionally significant experiences to be well remembered.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.27.070203.144157 
PMID: 15217324  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:701-28.

Cell biology of the presynaptic terminal.

Murthy VN(1), De Camilli P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University, 16 Divinity 
Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. vnmurthy@fas.harvard.edu

The chemical synapse is a specialized intercellular junction that operates nearly
autonomously to allow rapid, specific, and local communication between neurons.
Focusing our attention on the presynaptic terminal, we review the current
understanding of how synaptic morphology is maintained and then the mechanisms in
synaptic vesicle exocytosis and recycling.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131445 
PMID: 14527272  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:657-700.

Progress toward understanding the genetic and biochemical mechanisms of inherited
photoreceptor degenerations.

Pacione LR(1), Szego MJ, Ikeda S, Nishina PM, McInnes RR.

Author information: 
(1)Programs in Genetics and Developmental Biology, The Research Institute, The
Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5G 1X8.

More than 80 genes associated with human photoreceptor degenerations have been
identified. Attention must now turn toward defining the mechanisms that lead to
photoreceptor death, which occurs years to decades after the birth of the cells. 
Consequently, this review focuses on topics that offer insights into such
mechanisms, including the one-hit or constant risk model of photoreceptor death; 
topological patterns of photoreceptor degeneration; mutations in ubiquitously
expressed splicing factor genes associated only with photoreceptor degeneration; 
disorders of the retinal pigment epithelium; modifier genes; and global gene
expression analysis of the retina, which will greatly increase our understanding 
of the downstream events that occur in response to a mutation.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131416 
PMID: 14527271  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:599-625.

The biology of epilepsy genes.

Noebels JL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza,
Houston, TX 77030, USA. jnoebels@bcm.tmc.edu

Mutations in over 70 genes now define biological pathways leading to epilepsy, an
episodic dysrhythmia of the cerebral cortex marked by abnormal network
synchronization. Some of the inherited errors destabilize neuronal signaling by
inflicting primary disorders of membrane excitability and synaptic transmission, 
whereas others do so indirectly by perturbing critical control points that
balance the developmental assembly of inhibitory and excitatory circuits. The
genetic diversity is now sufficient to discern short- and long-range functional
convergence of epileptogenic molecular pathways, reducing the broad spectrum of
primary molecular defects to a few common processes regulating cortical
synchronization. Synaptic inhibition appears to be the most frequent target;
however, each gene mutation retains unique phenotypic features. This review
selects exemplary members of several gene families to illustrate principal
categories of the disease and trace the biological pathways to epileptogenesis in
the developing brain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.010302.081210 
PMID: 14527270  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:355-80.

Generating the cerebral cortical area map.

Grove EA(1), Fukuchi-Shimogori T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Pharmacology, and Physiology, University of
Chicago, 947 East 58th Street, Chicago, IL 60637, USA.
egrove@drugs.bsd.uchicago.edu

The view that the cortical primordium is initially patterned in similar ways to
the rest of the embryo has been a conceptual breakthrough. We now have a new
starting point for understanding how the cortical area map is established and how
maps may change and evolve. Here we review findings that signaling molecules
secreted from distinct cortical signaling centers establish positional
information in the cortical primordium and regulate regional growth. In other
embryonic systems, positional signals would regulate the patterned expression of 
transcription factors, leading, in a gene regulatory cascade, to the patterned
differentiation of the tissue. We discuss candidate transcription factors with
respect to such a model of cortical patterning. Finally, embryonic structures
interact to pattern one another. We review data suggesting that the thalamus and 
cortex are patterned independently then interact to generate the final cortical
area map.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131137 
PMID: 14527269  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:133-79.

The neurobiology of visual-saccadic decision making.

Glimcher PW(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, NY 10003, USA.
glimcher@cns.nyu.edu

Over the past two decades significant progress has been made toward understanding
the neural basis of primate decision making, the biological process that combines
sensory data with stored information to select and execute behavioral responses. 
The most striking progress in this area has been made in studies of
visual-saccadic decision making, a system that is becoming a model for
understanding decision making in general. In this system, theoretical models of
efficient decision making developed in the social sciences are beginning to be
used to describe the computations the brain must perform when it connects
sensation and action. Guided in part by these economic models, neurophysiologists
have been able to describe neuronal activity recorded from the brains of
awake-behaving primates during actual decision making. These recent studies have 
examined the neural basis of decisions, ranging from those made in predictable
sensorimotor tasks to those unpredictable decisions made when animals are engaged
in strategic conflict. All of these experiments seem to describe a surprisingly
well-integrated set of physiological mechanisms that can account for a broad
range of behavioral phenomena. This review presents many of these recent studies 
within the emerging neuroeconomic framework for understanding primate decision
making.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.010302.081134 
PMID: 14527268  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:105-31.

Novel neural modulators.

Boehning D(1), Snyder SH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 725
N. Wolfe Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. dboehnin@jhmi.edu

The discovery that nitric oxide (NO) is produced by neurons and regulates
synaptic activity has challenged the definition of a neurotransmitter. NO is not 
stored in synaptic vesicles and does not act at conventional receptors on the
surface of adjacent neurons. The toxic gases carbon monoxide (CO) and hydrogen
sulfide (H2S) are also produced by neurons and modulate synaptic activity.
D-serine synthesis and release by astrocytes as an endogenous ligand for the
"glycine" site of N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors defy the concept that a
neurotransmitter must be synthesized by neurons. We review the properties of
these "atypical" neural modulators.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131047 
PMID: 14527267  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:31-55.

Coding of auditory space.

Konishi M(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology 216-76, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA
91125, USA. konishim@caltech.edu

Behavioral, anatomical, and physiological approaches can be integrated in the
study of sound localization in barn owls. Space representation in owls provides a
useful example for discussion of place and ensemble coding. Selectivity for space
is broad and ambiguous in low-order neurons. Parallel pathways for binaural cues 
and for different frequency bands converge on high-order space-specific neurons, 
which encode space more precisely. An ensemble of broadly tuned place-coding
neurons may converge on a single high-order neuron to create an improved labeled 
line. Thus, the two coding schemes are not alternate methods. Owls can localize
sounds by using either the isomorphic map of auditory space in the midbrain or
forebrain neural networks in which space is not mapped.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131123 
PMID: 14527266  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:565-97. Epub 2003 Apr 18.

Notch and Presenilin: regulated intramembrane proteolysis links development and
degeneration.

Selkoe D(1), Kopan R.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurologic Diseases, Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's
Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. dselkoe@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

Intensive studies of three proteins--Presenilin, Notch, and the amyloid precursor
protein (APP)--have led to the recognition of a direct intersection between early
development and late-life neurodegeneration. Notch signaling mediates many
different intercellular communication events that are essential for determining
the fates of neural and nonneural cells during development and in the adult. The 
Notch receptor acts in a core pathway as a membrane-bound transcription factor
that is released to the nucleus by a two-step cleavage mechanism called regulated
intramembrane proteolysis (RIP). The second cleavage is effected by Presenilin,
an unusual polytopic aspartyl protease that apparently cleaves Notch and numerous
other single-transmembrane substrates within the lipid bilayer. Another
Presenilin substrate, APP, releases the amyloid ss-protein that can accumulate
over time in limbic and association cortices and help initiate Alzheimer's
disease. Elucidating the detailed mechanism of Presenilin processing of membrane 
proteins is important for understanding diverse signal transduction pathways and 
potentially for treating and preventing Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131334 
PMID: 12730322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:627-56. Epub 2003 Apr 10.

Human neurodegenerative disease modeling using Drosophila.

Bonini NM(1), Fortini ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of
Pennsylvania, 415 S. University Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6018, USA.
nbonini@sas.upenn.edu

A number of approaches have been taken to recreate and to study the role of genes
associated with human neurodegenerative diseases in the model organism
Drosophila. These studies encompass the polyglutamine diseases, Parkinson's
disease, Alzheimer's disease, and tau-associated pathologies. The findings
highlight Drosophila as an important model system in which to study the
fundamental pathways influenced by these genes and have led to new insights into 
aspects of pathogenesis and modifier mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131425 
PMID: 12704223  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:381-410. Epub 2003 Apr 10.

Inference and computation with population codes.

Pouget A(1), Dayan P, Zemel RS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Meliora Hall, University of
Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627, USA. alex@bcs.rochester.edu

In the vertebrate nervous system, sensory stimuli are typically encoded through
the concerted activity of large populations of neurons. Classically, these
patterns of activity have been treated as encoding the value of the stimulus
(e.g., the orientation of a contour), and computation has been formalized in
terms of function approximation. More recently, there have been several
suggestions that neural computation is akin to a Bayesian inference process, with
population activity patterns representing uncertainty about stimuli in the form
of probability distributions (e.g., the probability density function over the
orientation of a contour). This paper reviews both approaches, with a particular 
emphasis on the latter, which we see as a very promising framework for future
modeling and experimental work.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131112 
PMID: 12704222  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:267-98. Epub 2003 Apr 9.

Protofibrils, pores, fibrils, and neurodegeneration: separating the responsible
protein aggregates from the innocent bystanders.

Caughey B(1), Lansbury PT.

Author information: 
(1)NIAID, National Institutes of Health, Rocky Mountain Laboratories, Hamilton,
Montana, USA. bcaughey@niaid.nih.gov

Many neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's and the
transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (prion diseases), are characterized at 
autopsy by neuronal loss and protein aggregates that are typically fibrillar. A
convergence of evidence strongly suggests that protein aggregation is neurotoxic 
and not a product of cell death. However, the identity of the neurotoxic
aggregate and the mechanism by which it disables and eventually kills a neuron
are unknown. Both biophysical studies aimed at elucidating the precise mechanism 
of in vitro aggregation and animal modeling studies support the emerging notion
that an ordered prefibrillar oligomer, or protofibril, may be responsible for
cell death and that the fibrillar form that is typically observed at autopsy may 
actually be neuroprotective. A subpopulation of protofibrils may function as
pathogenic amyloid pores. An analogous mechanism may explain the neurotoxicity of
the prion protein; recent data demonstrates that the disease-associated,
infectious form of the prion protein differs from the neurotoxic species. This
review focuses on recent experimental studies aimed at identification and
characterization of the neurotoxic protein aggregates.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.010302.081142 
PMID: 12704221  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:509-63. Epub 2003 Mar 28.

Signaling at the growth cone: ligand-receptor complexes and the control of axon
growth and guidance.

Huber AB(1), Kolodkin AL, Ginty DD, Cloutier JF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, The Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. hubera@jhmi.edu

The guidance of axons during the establishment of the nervous system is mediated 
by a variety of extracellular cues that govern cytoskeletal dynamics in axonal
growth cones. A large number of these guidance cues and their cell-surface
receptors have now been identified, and the intracellular signaling pathways by
which these cues induce cytoskeletal rearrangements are becoming defined. This
review summarizes our current understanding of the major families of axon
guidance cues and their receptors, with a particular emphasis on receptor
signaling mechanisms. We also discuss recent advances in understanding receptor
cross talk and how the activities of guidance cues and their receptors are
modulated during neural development.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.010302.081139 
PMID: 12677003  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:1-30. Epub 2003 Mar 6.

Pain mechanisms: labeled lines versus convergence in central processing.

Craig AD(1).

Author information: 
(1)Atkinson Pain Research Laboratory, Barrow Neurological Institute, 350 W.
Thomas Road, Phoenix, AZ 85013, USA. bcraig@chw.edu

The issue of whether pain is represented by specific neural elements or by
patterned activity within a convergent somatosensory subsystem has been debated
for over a century. The gate control theory introduced in 1965 denied central
specificity, and since then most authors have endorsed convergent
wide-dynamic-range neurons. Recent functional and anatomical findings provide
compelling support for a new perspective that views pain in humans as a
homeostatic emotion that integrates both specific labeled lines and convergent
somatic activity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131022 
PMID: 12651967  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


301. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:411-40. Epub 2003 Feb 26.

Molecular approaches to spinal cord repair.

David S(1), Lacroix S.

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Research in Neuroscience, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal
General Hospital Research Institute, 1650 Cedar Avenue, Montreal, Quebec, Canada,
H3G 1A4. sdavid11@po-box.mcgill.ca

Axon growth inhibitors associated with myelin and the glial scar contribute to
the failure of axon regeneration in the injured adult mammalian central nervous
system (CNS). A number of these inhibitors, their receptors, and signaling
pathways have been identified. These inhibitors can now be neutralized by a
variety of approaches that point to the possibility of developing new therapeutic
strategies to stimulate regeneration after spinal cord injury.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.043002.094946 
PMID: 12626698  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:485-508. Epub 2003 Feb 26.

Cell-cell signaling during synapse formation in the CNS.

Scheiffele P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, and Center for Neurobiology 
and Behavior, Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, P&S 11-511,
630 West 168 Street, New York, NY 10032, USA. ps2018@columbia.edu

Synapses join individual nerve cells into a functional network. Specific
cell-cell signaling events regulate synapse formation during development and
thereby generate a highly reproducible connectivity pattern. The accuracy of this
process is fundamental for normal brain function, and aberrant connectivity leads
to nervous system disorders. However, despite the overall precision with which
neuronal circuits are formed, individual synapses and synaptic networks are also 
plastic and can readily adapt to external stimuli or perturbations. In recent
studies, several trans-synaptic signaling systems have been identified that can
mediate various aspects of synaptic differentiation in the central nervous
system. It appears that these individual pathways functionally cooperate, thereby
generating robustness and flexibility, which ensure normal nervous system
function.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.043002.094940 
PMID: 12626697  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:331-54. Epub 2003 Feb 26.

Brain representation of object-centered space in monkeys and humans.

Olson CR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, Carnegie Mellon University, 4400
Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213-2683, USA. colson@cnbc.cmu.edu

Visuospatial cognition requires taking into account where things are relative to 
each other and not just relative to the viewer. Consequently it would make sense 
for the brain to form an explicit representation of object-centered and not just 
of ego-centered space. Evidence bearing on the presence and nature of neural maps
of object-centered space has come from two sources: single-neuron recording in
behaving monkeys and assessment of the visual abilities of human patients with
hemispatial neglect. Studies of the supplementary eye field of the monkey have
revealed that it contains neurons with object-centered spatial selectivity. These
neurons fire when the monkey has selected, as target for an eye movement or
attention, a particular location defined relative to a reference object. Studies 
of neglect have revealed that in some patients the condition is expressed with
respect to an object-centered and object-aligned reference frame. These patients 
neglect one side of an object, as defined relative to its intrinsic midline,
regardless of its location and orientation relative to the viewer. The two sets
of observations are complementary in the sense that the loss of neurons, such as 
observed in the monkey, could explain the spatial distribution of neglect in
these patients.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131405 
PMID: 12626696  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:441-83. Epub 2003 Feb 26.

Cell migration in the forebrain.

Marín O(1), Rubenstein JL.

Author information: 
(1)Unidad de Neurobiologia del Desarrollo, Instituto de Neurociencias, Consejo
Superior de Investigaciones Cientificas-Universidad Miguel Hernandez, 03550 San
Juan de Alicante, Spain. o.marin@umh.es

The forebrain comprises an intricate set of structures that are required for some
of the most complex and evolved functions of the mammalian brain. As a reflection
of its complexity, cell migration in the forebrain is extremely elaborated, with 
widespread dispersion of cells across multiple functionally distinct areas. Two
general modes of migration are distinguished in the forebrain: radial migration, 
which establishes the general cytoarchitectonical framework of the different
forebrain subdivisions; and tangential migration, which increases the cellular
complexity of forebrain circuits by allowing the dispersion of multiple neuronal 
types. Here, we review the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying each of
these types of migrations and discuss how emerging concepts in neuronal migration
are reshaping our understanding of forebrain development in normal and
pathological situations.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131058 
PMID: 12626695  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:299-330. Epub 2003 Feb 18.

Selectivity in neurotrophin signaling: theme and variations.

Segal RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Departments of Neurobiology and Pediatric Oncology, Harvard Medical School and
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 44 Binney Street, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
Rosalind_segal@dfci.harvard.edu

Neurotrophins are a family of growth factors critical for the development and
functioning of the nervous system. Although originally identified as neuronal
survival factors, neurotrophins elicit many biological effects, ranging from
proliferation to synaptic modulation to axonal pathfinding. Recent data indicate 
that the nature of the signaling cascades activated by neurotrophins, and the
biological responses that ensue, are specified not only by the ligand itself but 
also by the temporal pattern and spatial location of stimulation. Studies on
neurotrophin signaling have revealed variations in the Ras/MAP kinase, PI3
kinase, and phospholipase C pathways, which transmit spatial and temporal
information. The anatomy of neurons makes them particularly appropriate for
studying how the location and tempo of stimulation determine the signal cascades 
that are activated by receptor tyrosine kinases such as the Trk receptors. These 
signaling variations may represent a general mechanism eliciting specificity in
growth factor responses.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131421 
PMID: 12598680  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:239-66. Epub 2003 Feb 13.

Breathing: rhythmicity, plasticity, chemosensitivity.

Feldman JL(1), Mitchell GS, Nattie EE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of
California-Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1763, USA. feldman@ucla.edu

Breathing is a vital behavior that is particularly amenable to experimental
investigation. We review recent progress on three problems of broad interest. (i)
Where and how is respiratory rhythm generated? The preBötzinger Complex is a
critical site, whereas pacemaker neurons may not be essential. The possibility
that coupled oscillators are involved is considered. (ii) What are the mechanisms
that underlie the plasticity necessary for adaptive changes in breathing?
Serotonin-dependent long-term facilitation following intermittent hypoxia is an
important example of such plasticity, and a model that can account for this
adaptive behavior is discussed. (iii) Where and how are the regulated variables
CO2 and pH sensed? These sensors are essential if breathing is to be appropriate 
for metabolism. Neurons with appropriate chemosensitivity are spread throughout
the brainstem; their individual properties and collective role are just beginning
to be understood.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131103 
PMCID: PMC2811316
PMID: 12598679  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:207-38. Epub 2003 Feb 13.

New insights into the diversity and function of neuronal immunoglobulin
superfamily molecules.

Rougon G(1), Hobert O.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratoire NMDA CNRS UMR 6156, Universite de la Mediterranee, Institut de
Biologie du Developpement (IBDM), Marseille Cedex 9, 13288 France.
rougon@libdm.univ-mrs.fr

Immunoglobulin superfamily (IgSF) proteins are implicated in diverse steps of
brain development, including neuronal migration, axon pathfinding, target
recognition and synapse formation, as well as in the maintenance and function of 
neuronal networks in the adult. We provide here a review of recent findings on
the diversity and the role of transmembrane and secreted members of IgSF proteins
in the nervous system. We illustrate that the complexity of IgSF protein function
results from various different levels of regulation including regulation of gene 
expression, protein localization, and protein interactions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131014 
PMID: 12598678  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:81-104. Epub 2003 Jan 24.

Epidemiology of neurodegeneration.

Mayeux R(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Gertrude H. Sergievsky Center, Columbia University, 630 West 168th Street,
New York, NY 10032, USA. rpm2@columbia.edu

Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and motor neuron disease share a
propensity to occur with increasing age and as either a sporadic or a familial
disorder. A number of behavioral and environmental risk factors have been
proposed for each disorder, but most associations lack consistency and
specificity. Over the last decade the remarkable frequency of these disorders has
become apparent, and the identification of mutations in genes has provided the
means to understand their pathogenesis. Better and more accurate means to
characterize and diagnose these diseases has greatly facilitated analytic
epidemiology. The analysis of behavioral and genetic factors that may lower
disease risk has led to clinical trials that are either in progress or being
planned with the aim of preventing these disorders.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.043002.094919 
PMID: 12574495  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:181-206. Epub 2003 Jan 27.

Color vision.

Gegenfurtner KR(1), Kiper DC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Giessen University, Otto-Behaghel-Strasse 10, 35394 
Giessen, Germany. gegenfurtner@uni-giessen.de

Color vision starts with the absorption of light in the retinal cone
photoreceptors, which transduce electromagnetic energy into electrical voltages. 
These voltages are transformed into action potentials by a complicated network of
cells in the retina. The information is sent to the visual cortex via the lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN) in three separate color-opponent channels that have been
characterized psychophysically, physiologically, and computationally. The
properties of cells in the retina and LGN account for a surprisingly large body
of psychophysical literature. This suggests that several fundamental computations
involved in color perception occur at early levels of processing. In the cortex, 
information from the three retino-geniculate channels is combined to enable
perception of a large variety of different hues. Furthermore, recent evidence
suggests that color analysis and coding cannot be separated from the analysis and
coding of other visual attributes such as form and motion. Though there are some 
brain areas that are more sensitive to color than others, color vision emerges
through the combined activity of neurons in many different areas.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131116 
PMID: 12574494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2003;26:57-80. Epub 2003 Jan 8.

Deciphering the genetic basis of speech and language disorders.

Fisher SE(1), Lai CS, Monaco AP.

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, University of Oxford, Roosevelt
Drive, Headington, Oxford OX3 7BN, United Kingdom. simon.fisher@well.ox.ac.uk

A significant number of individuals have unexplained difficulties with acquiring 
normal speech and language, despite adequate intelligence and environmental
stimulation. Although developmental disorders of speech and language are
heritable, the genetic basis is likely to involve several, possibly many,
different risk factors. Investigations of a unique three-generation family
showing monogenic inheritance of speech and language deficits led to the
isolation of the first such gene on chromosome 7, which encodes a transcription
factor known as FOXP2. Disruption of this gene causes a rare severe speech and
language disorder but does not appear to be involved in more common forms of
language impairment. Recent genome-wide scans have identified at least four
chromosomal regions that may harbor genes influencing the latter, on chromosomes 
2, 13, 16, and 19. The molecular genetic approach has potential for dissecting
neurological pathways underlying speech and language disorders, but such
investigations are only just beginning.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.26.041002.131144 
PMID: 12524432  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:563-93. Epub 2002 Mar 27.

Learning and memory functions of the Basal Ganglia.

Packard MG(1), Knowlton BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA. 
mark.packard@yale.edu

Although the mammalian basal ganglia have long been implicated in motor behavior,
it is generally recognized that the behavioral functions of this subcortical
group of structures are not exclusively motoric in nature. Extensive evidence now
indicates a role for the basal ganglia, in particular the dorsal striatum, in
learning and memory. One prominent hypothesis is that this brain region mediates 
a form of learning in which stimulus-response (S-R) associations or habits are
incrementally acquired. Support for this hypothesis is provided by numerous
neurobehavioral studies in different mammalian species, including rats, monkeys, 
and humans. In rats and monkeys, localized brain lesion and pharmacological
approaches have been used to examine the role of the basal ganglia in S-R
learning. In humans, study of patients with neurodegenerative diseases that
compromise the basal ganglia, as well as research using brain neuroimaging
techniques, also provide evidence of a role for the basal ganglia in habit
learning. Several of these studies have dissociated the role of the basal ganglia
in S-R learning from those of a cognitive or declarative medial temporal lobe
memory system that includes the hippocampus as a primary component. Evidence
suggests that during learning, basal ganglia and medial temporal lobe memory
systems are activated simultaneously and that in some learning situations
competitive interference exists between these two systems.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142937 
PMID: 12052921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:537-62. Epub 2002 Mar 27.

Central nervous system damage, monocytes and macrophages, and neurological
disorders in AIDS.

Williams KC(1), Hickey WF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Harvard Medical School Division of Viral Pathogenesis 
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
kenneth_williams@hms.harvard.edu

This review focuses on the role of the extended macrophage/monocyte family in the
central nervous system during HIV or SIV infection. The accumulated data,
buttressed by recent experimental results, suggest that these cells play a
central, pathogenic role in retroviral-associated CNS disease. While the immune
system is able to combat the underlying retroviral infection, the accumulation
and widespread activation of macrophages, microglia, and perivascular cells in
the CNS are held in check. However, with the collapse of the immune system and
the disappearance of the CD4(+) T cell population, productive infection
reemerges, especially in CNS macrophages. These cells, as well as noninfected
macrophages, are stimulated to high levels of activation. When members of this
cell group become highly activated, they elaborate a wide spectrum of deleterious
substances into the neural parenchyma. In the final phases of HIV or SIV
infection, this chronic, widespread, and dramatic level of
macrophage/monocyte/microglial activation constitutes a self-sustaining state of 
macrophage dysregulation, which results in pathological alterations and the
emergence of various neurological problems.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142822 
PMID: 12052920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:507-36. Epub 2002 Mar 27.

Wired for reproduction: organization and development of sexually dimorphic
circuits in the mammalian forebrain.

Simerly RB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, Oregon Regional Primate Research Center, Oregon
Health and Sciences University, Beaverton 97006, USA. simerlyr@ohsu.edu

Mammalian reproduction depends on the coordinated expression of behavior with
precisely timed physiological events that are fundamentally different in males
and females. An improved understanding of the neuroanatomical relationships
between sexually dimorphic parts of the forebrain has contributed to a
significant paradigm shift in how functional neural systems are approached
experimentally. This review focuses on the organization of interconnected
limbic-hypothalamic pathways that participate in the neural control of
reproduction and summarizes what is known about the developmental neurobiology of
these pathways. Sex steroid hormones such as estrogen and testosterone have much 
in common with neurotrophins and regulate cell death, neuronal migration,
neurogenesis, and neurotransmitter plasticity. In addition, these hormones direct
formation of sexually dimorphic circuits by influencing axonal guidance and
synaptogenesis. The signaling events underlying the developmental activities of
sex steroids involve interactions between nuclear hormone receptors and other
transcriptional regulators, as well as interactions at multiple levels with
neurotrophin and neurotransmitter signal transduction pathways.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142745 
PMID: 12052919  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:491-505. Epub 2002 Mar 27.

Multiple sclerosis: deeper understanding of its pathogenesis reveals new targets 
for therapy.

Steinman L(1), Martin R, Bernard C, Conlon P, Oksenberg JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Neurological Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, California 94305, USA. steinman@stanford.edu

Recent technological breakthroughs allowing for large-scale analysis of gene
transcripts and large-scale monitoring of the immune response with protein chips 
are revealing new participants in the pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis. Some of
these participants may be useful targets for therapy.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142913 
PMID: 12052918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:471-90. Epub 2002 Mar 25.

The role of notch in promoting glial and neural stem cell fates.

Gaiano N(1), Fishell G.

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Genetics Program, and Department of Cell Biology, Skirball
Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, New York University School of Medicine, NY
10016, USA. ngaiano1@jhmi.edu

The Notch signaling pathway has long been known to influence cell fate in the
developing nervous system. However, this pathway has generally been thought to
inhibit the specification of certain cell types in favor of others, or to simply 
maintain a progenitor pool. Recently, this view has been challenged by numerous
studies suggesting that Notch may play an instructive role in promoting glial
development. This work has inspired a new look at the role of Notch signaling in 
specifying cell fate. It has also prompted further consideration of the emerging 
view that in some contexts glia may be multipotent progenitors. This review
examines the role of Notch during gliogenesis in both fruit flies and
vertebrates, as well as evidence in vertebrates that some glia may be stem cells.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.030702.130823 
PMID: 12052917  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:433-69. Epub 2002 Mar 25.

The central autonomic nervous system: conscious visceral perception and autonomic
pattern generation.

Saper CB(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology and Program in Neuroscience, Harvard Medical School,
Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 330 Brookline Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts
02215, USA. csaper@caregroup.harvard.edu

The overall organization of the peripheral autonomic nervous system has been
known for many decades, but the mechanisms by which it is controlled by the
central nervous system are just now coming to light. In particular, two major
issues have seen considerable progress in the past decade. First, the pathways
that provide visceral sensation to conscious perception at a cortical level have 
been elucidated in both animals and humans. The nociceptive system runs in
parallel to the pathways carrying visceral sensation from the cranial nerves and 
may be considered in itself a component of visceral sensation. Second, structures
in the central nervous system that generate patterns of autonomic response have
been identified. These pattern generators are located at multiple levels of the
central nervous system, and they can be combined in temporal and spatial patterns
to subserve a wide range of behavioral needs.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.032502.111311 
PMID: 12052916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:409-32. Epub 2002 Mar 22.

Schizophrenia as a disorder of neurodevelopment.

Lewis DA(1), Levitt P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine,
University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA. lewisda@msx.upmc.edu

A combination of genetic susceptibility and environmental perturbations appear to
be necessary for the expression of schizophrenia. In addition, the pathogenesis
of the disease is hypothesized to be neurodevelopmental in nature based on
reports of an excess of adverse events during the pre- and perinatal periods, the
presence of cognitive and behavioral signs during childhood and adolescence, and 
the lack of evidence of a neurodegenerative process in most individuals with
schizophrenia. Recent studies of neurodevelopmental mechanisms strongly suggest
that no single gene or factor is responsible for driving a highly complex
biological process. Together, these findings suggest that combinatorial genetic
and environmental factors, which disturb a normal developmental course early in
life, result in molecular and histogenic responses that cumulatively lead to
different developmental trajectories and the clinical phenotype recognized as
schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142754 
PMID: 12052915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:381-407. Epub 2002 Mar 20.

Large-scale sources of neural stem cells.

Gottlieb DI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA. gottlied@pcg.wustl.edu

Large-scale sources of neural stem cells are crucial for both basic research and 
novel approaches toward treating neurological disorders. Three sources that
produce neural cells closely resembling their normal counterparts are now
available: oncogene immortalized stem cells, neurospheres, and embryonic stem
cell (ES)-derived neural cells. Cells including multiple subtypes of CNS and PNS 
neurons, as well as oligodendrocytes, Schwann cells, and astrocytes, are modeled 
by these large-scale sources. Although most cell lines were originally from
rodents, their human counterparts are being discovered and characterized.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142904 
PMID: 12052914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:339-79. Epub 2002 Mar 27.

Contextual influences on visual processing.

Albright TD(1), Stoner GR.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Systems Neurobiology Laboratories, The Salk
Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, California 92037, USA. tom@salk.edu
gene@salk.edu

The visual image formed on the retina represents an amalgam of visual scene
properties, including the reflectances of surfaces, their relative positions, and
the type of illumination. The challenge facing the visual system is to extract
the "meaning" of the image by decomposing it into its environmental causes. For
each local region of the image, that extraction of meaning is only possible if
information from other regions is taken into account. Of particular importance is
a set of image cues revealing surface occlusion and/or lighting conditions. These
information-rich cues direct the perceptual interpretation of other more
ambiguous image regions. This context-dependent transformation from image to
perception has profound-but frequently under-appreciated-implications for
neurophysiological studies of visual processing: To demonstrate that neuronal
responses are correlated with perception of visual scene properties, rather than 
visual image features, neuronal sensitivity must be assessed in varied contexts
that differentially influence perceptual interpretation. We review a number of
recent studies that have used this context-based approach to explore the neuronal
bases of visual scene perception.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142900 
PMID: 12052913  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:315-38. Epub 2002 Mar 20.

A decade of molecular studies of fragile X syndrome.

O'Donnell WT(1), Warren ST.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Human Genetics, Emory
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia 30322, USA.
wodonne@learnlink.emory.edu

Fragile X syndrome is one of the most common forms of inherited mental
retardation. In most cases the disease is caused by the methylation-induced
transcriptional silencing of the fragile X mental retardation 1 (FMR1) gene that 
occurs as a result of the expansion of a CGG repeat in the gene's 5'UTR and leads
to the loss of protein product fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). FMRP 
is an RNA binding protein that associates with translating polyribosomes as part 
of a large messenger ribonucleoprotein (mRNP) and modulates the translation of
its RNA ligands. Pathological studies from the brains of patients and from Fmr1
knockout mice show abnormal dendritic spines implicating FMRP in synapse
formation and function. Evidence from both in vitro and in vivo neuronal studies 
indicates that FMRP is located at the synapse and the loss of FMRP alters
synaptic plasticity. As synaptic plasticity has been implicated in learning and
memory, analysis of synapse abnormalities in patients and Fmr1 knockout mice
should prove useful in studying the pathogenesis of fragile X syndrome and
understanding learning and cognition in general. If an appreciable portion of the
total variance (in IQ) is due to sex linked genes, it is of more importance that 
a boy should have a clever mother than a clever father. Hogben 1932 (quoted in
Lehrke 1974)

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142909 
PMID: 12052912  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:283-313. Epub 2002 Mar 20.

The role of hypocretins (orexins) in sleep regulation and narcolepsy.

Taheri S(1), Zeitzer JM, Mignot E.

Author information: 
(1)Stanford University Center for Narcolepsy, 701 Welch Road B, Basement, Palo
Alto, California 94304-5742, USA. staheri@stanford.edu

The hypocretins (orexins) are two novel neuropeptides (Hcrt-1 and Hcrt-2),
derived from the same precursor gene, that are synthesized by neurons located
exclusively in the lateral, posterior, and perifornical hypothalamus.
Hypocretin-containing neurons have widespread projections throughout the CNS with
particularly dense excitatory projections to monoaminergic centers such as the
noradrenergic locus coeruleus, histaminergic tuberomammillary nucleus,
serotoninergic raphe nucleus, and dopaminergic ventral tegmental area. The
hypocretins were originally believed to be primarily important in the regulation 
of appetite; however, a major function emerging from research on these
neuropeptides is the regulation of sleep and wakefulness. Deficiency in
hypocretin neurotransmission results in the sleep disorder narcolepsy in mice,
dogs, and humans. The hypocretins are also uniquely positioned to link sleep,
appetite, and neuroendocrine control. The aim of this review is to describe and
discuss the current knowledge regarding the hypocretin neurotransmitter system in
narcolepsy and normal sleep.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142826 
PMID: 12052911  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:251-81. Epub 2002 Mar 27.

Transcriptional codes and the control of neuronal identity.

Shirasaki R(1), Pfaff SL.

Author information: 
(1)Gene Expression Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA. shirasaki@salk.edu

The topographic assembly of neural circuits is dependent upon the generation of
specific neuronal subtypes, each subtype displaying unique properties that direct
the formation of selective connections with appropriate target cells. Studies of 
motor neuron development in the spinal cord have begun to elucidate the molecular
mechanisms involved in controlling motor projections. In this review, we first
describe the actions of transcription factors within motor neuron progenitors,
which initiate a cascade of transcriptional interactions that lead to motor
neuron specification. We next highlight the contribution of the LIM homeodomain
(LIM-HD) transcription factors in establishing motor neuron subtype identity.
Importantly, it has recently been shown that the combinatorial expression of
LIM-HD transcription factors, the LIM code, confers motor neuron subtypes with
the ability to select specific axon pathways to reach their distinct muscle
targets. Finally, the downstream targets of the LIM code are discussed,
especially in the context of subtype-specific motor axon pathfinding.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142916 
PMID: 12052910  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:221-50. Epub 2002 Mar 19.

Beyond phrenology: what can neuroimaging tell us about distributed circuitry?

Friston K(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Wellcome Department of Cognitive Neurology, University College London,
Queen Square, United Kingdom. k.friston@fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk

Unsupervised models of how the brain identifies and categorizes the causes of its
sensory input can be divided into two classes: those that minimize the mutual
information (i.e., redundancy) among evoked responses and those that minimize the
prediction error. Although these models have the same goal, the way that goal is 
attained, and the functional architectures required, are fundamentally different.
This review describes the differences, in the functional anatomy of sensory
cortical hierarchies, implied by the two models. We then consider how
neuroimaging can be used to disambiguate between them. The key distinction
reduces to whether backward connections are employed by the brain to generate a
prediction of sensory inputs. To ascertain whether backward influences are
evident empirically requires a characterization of functional integration among
brain systems. This review summarizes the approaches to measuring functional
integration in terms of effective connectivity and proceeds to address the
question posed by the theoretical considerations. In short, it will be shown that
the conjoint manipulation of bottom-up and top-down inputs to an area can be used
to test for interactions between them, in elaborating cortical responses. The
conclusion, from these sorts of neuroimaging studies, points to the prevalence of
top-down influences and the plausibility of generative models of sensory brain
function.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142846 
PMID: 12052909  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:189-220. Epub 2002 Mar 27.

Intentional maps in posterior parietal cortex.

Andersen RA(1), Buneo CA.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Mail Code 216-76,
Pasadena 91125, USA. andersen@vis.caltech.edu

The posterior parietal cortex (PPC), historically believed to be a sensory
structure, is now viewed as an area important for sensory-motor integration.
Among its functions is the forming of intentions, that is, high-level cognitive
plans for movement. There is a map of intentions within the PPC, with different
subregions dedicated to the planning of eye movements, reaching movements, and
grasping movements. These areas appear to be specialized for the multisensory
integration and coordinate transformations required to convert sensory input to
motor output. In several subregions of the PPC, these operations are facilitated 
by the use of a common distributed space representation that is independent of
both sensory input and motor output. Attention and learning effects are also
evident in the PPC. However, these effects may be general to cortex and operate
in the PPC in the context of sensory-motor transformations.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142922 
PMID: 12052908  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:151-88. Epub 2002 Mar 19.

Functional MRI of language: new approaches to understanding the cortical
organization of semantic processing.

Bookheimer S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Brain Mapping Center, UCLA School of Medicine, 90095, USA. sbook@ucla.edu

Until recently, our understanding of how language is organized in the brain
depended on analysis of behavioral deficits in patients with fortuitously placed 
lesions. The availability of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) for in 
vivo analysis of the normal brain has revolutionized the study of language. This 
review discusses three lines of fMRI research into how the semantic system is
organized in the adult brain. These are (a) the role of the left inferior frontal
lobe in semantic processing and dissociations from other frontal lobe language
functions, (b) the organization of categories of objects and concepts in the
temporal lobe, and (c) the role of the right hemisphere in comprehending
contextual and figurative meaning. Together, these lines of research broaden our 
understanding of how the brain stores, retrieves, and makes sense of semantic
information, and they challenge some commonly held notions of functional
modularity in the language system.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142946 
PMID: 12052907  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:127-49. Epub 2002 Mar 19.

Molecular control of cortical dendrite development.

Whitford KL(1), Dijkhuizen P, Polleux F, Ghosh A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. kwhit@jhmi.edu

Dendritic morphology has a profound impact on neuronal information processing.
The overall extent and orientation of dendrites determines the kinds of input a
neuron receives. Fine dendritic appendages called spines act as subcellular
compartments devoted to processing synaptic information, and the dendritic
branching pattern determines the efficacy with which synaptic information is
transmitted to the soma. The acquisition of a mature dendritic morphology depends
on the coordinated action of a number of different extracellular factors. Here we
discuss this evidence in the context of dendritic development in the cerebral
cortex. Soon after migrating to the cortical plate, neurons extend an apical
dendrite directed toward the pial surface. The oriented growth of the apical
dendrite is regulated by Sema3A, which acts as a dendritic chemoattractant.
Subsequent dendritic development involves signaling by neurotrophic factors and
Notch, which regulate dendritic growth and branching. During postnatal
development the formation and stabilization of dendritic spines are regulated in 
part by patterns of synaptic activity. These observations suggest that
extracellular signals play an important role in regulating every aspect of
dendritic development and thereby exert a critical influence on cortical
connectivity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142932 
PMID: 12052906  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:103-26. Epub 2002 Mar 4.

AMPA receptor trafficking and synaptic plasticity.

Malinow R(1), Malenka RC.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 11724, USA. malinow@cshl.org

Activity-dependent changes in synaptic function are believed to underlie the
formation of memories. Two prominent examples are long-term potentiation (LTP)
and long-term depression (LTD), whose mechanisms have been the subject of
considerable scrutiny over the past few decades. Here we review the growing
literature that supports a critical role for AMPA receptor trafficking in LTP and
LTD, focusing on the roles proposed for specific AMPA receptor subunits and their
interacting proteins. While much work remains to understand the molecular basis
for synaptic plasticity, recent results on AMPA receptor trafficking provide a
clear conceptual framework for future studies.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142758 
PMID: 12052905  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:51-101. Epub 2002 Feb 5.

Auditory system development: primary auditory neurons and their targets.

Rubel EW(1), Fritzsch B.

Author information: 
(1)Virginia Merrill Bloedel Hearing Research Center, Department of
Otolaryngology/Head and Neck Surgery, University of Washington, Seattle
98195-7923, USA. rubel@u.washington.edu

The neurons of the cochlear ganglion transmit acoustic information between the
inner ear and the brain. These placodally derived neurons must produce a
topographically precise pattern of connections in both the inner ear and the
brain. In this review, we consider the current state of knowledge concerning the 
development of these neurons, their peripheral and central connections, and their
influences on peripheral and central target cells. Relatively little is known
about the cellular and molecular regulation of migration or the establishment of 
precise topographic connection to the hair cells or cochlear nucleus (CN)
neurons. Studies of mice with neurotrophin deletions are beginning to yield
increasing understanding of variations in ganglion cell survival and resulting
innervation patterns, however. Finally, existing evidence suggests that while
ganglion cells have little influence on the differentiation of their hair cell
targets, quite the opposite is true in the brain. Ganglion cell innervation and
synaptic activity are essential for normal development of neurons in the cochlear
nucleus.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142849 
PMID: 12052904  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2002;25:1-50. Epub 2002 Jan 22.

The human genome project and its impact on psychiatry.

Cowan WM(1), Kopnisky KL, Hyman SE.

Author information: 
(1)National Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
mcowan1@mail.nih.gov

There has been substantial evidence for more than three decades that the major
psychiatric illnesses such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, autism, and
alcoholism have a strong genetic basis. During the past 15 years considerable
effort has been expended in trying to establish the genetic loci associated with 
susceptibility to these and other mental disorders using principally linkage
analysis. Despite this, only a handful of specific genes have been identified,
and it is now generally recognized that further advances along these lines will
require the analysis of literally hundreds of affected individuals and their
families. Fortunately, the emergence in the past three years of a number of new
approaches and more effective tools has given new hope to those engaged in the
search for the underlying genetic and environmental factors involved in causing
these illnesses, which collectively are among the most serious in all societies. 
Chief among these new tools is the availability of the entire human genome
sequence and the prospect that within the next several years the entire
complement of human genes will be known and the functions of most of their
protein products elucidated. In the meantime the search for susceptibility loci
is being facilitated by the availability of single nucleotide polymorphisms
(SNPs) and by the beginning of haplotype mapping, which tracks the distribution
of clusters of SNPs that segregate as a group. Together with high throughput DNA 
sequencing, microarrays for whole genome scanning, advances in proteomics, and
the development of more sophisticated computer programs for analyzing sequence
and association data, these advances hold promise of greatly accelerating the
search for the genetic basis of most mental illnesses while, at the same time,
providing molecular targets for the development of new and more effective
therapies.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.25.112701.142853 
PMID: 12052903  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:1283-309.

Flies, genes, and learning.

Waddell S(1), Quinn WG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Department of Biology, Center for 
Learning and Memory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
Massachusetts 02139, USA. waddell@mit.edu

Flies can learn. For the past 25 years, researchers have isolated mutants,
engineered mutants with transgenes, and tested likely suspect mutants from other 
screens for learning ability. There have been notable surprises-conventional
second messenger systems co-opted for intricate associative learning tasks, two
entirely separate forms of long-term memory, a cell-adhesion molecule that is
necessary for short-term memory. The most recent surprise is the mechanistic
kinship revealed between learning and addictive drug response behaviors in flies.
The flow of new insight is likely to quicken with the completion of the fly
genome and the arrival of more selective methods of gene expression.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.1283 
PMID: 11520934  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:1217-81.

Nerve growth factor signaling, neuroprotection, and neural repair.

Sofroniew MV(1), Howe CL, Mobley WC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Brain Research Institute, University of
California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California 90095-1763, USA.
sofroniew@mednet.ucla.edu

Nerve growth factor (NGF) was discovered 50 years ago as a molecule that promoted
the survival and differentiation of sensory and sympathetic neurons. Its roles in
neural development have been characterized extensively, but recent findings point
to an unexpected diversity of NGF actions and indicate that developmental effects
are only one aspect of the biology of NGF. This article considers expanded roles 
for NGF that are associated with the dynamically regulated production of NGF and 
its receptors that begins in development, extends throughout adult life and
aging, and involves a surprising variety of neurons, glia, and nonneural cells.
Particular attention is given to a growing body of evidence that suggests that
among other roles, endogenous NGF signaling subserves neuroprotective and repair 
functions. The analysis points to many interesting unanswered questions and to
the potential for continuing research on NGF to substantially enhance our
understanding of the mechanisms and treatment of neurological disorders.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.1217 
PMID: 11520933  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:1193-216.

Natural image statistics and neural representation.

Simoncelli EP(1), Olshausen BA.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Center for Neural Science, and Courant
Institute of Mathematical Sciences, New York University, New York, NY 10003. USA.
eero.simoncelli@nyu.edu

It has long been assumed that sensory neurons are adapted, through both
evolutionary and developmental processes, to the statistical properties of the
signals to which they are exposed. Attneave (1954)Barlow (1961) proposed that
information theory could provide a link between environmental statistics and
neural responses through the concept of coding efficiency. Recent developments in
statistical modeling, along with powerful computational tools, have enabled
researchers to study more sophisticated statistical models for visual images, to 
validate these models empirically against large sets of data, and to begin
experimentally testing the efficient coding hypothesis for both individual
neurons and populations of neurons.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.1193 
PMID: 11520932  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:1161-92.

Maternal care, gene expression, and the transmission of individual differences in
stress reactivity across generations.

Meaney MJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Developmental Neuroendocrinology Laboratory, Douglas Hospital Research Centre,
Department of Psychiatry and McGill Centre for the Study of Behavior, Genes and
Environment, McGill University, Montréal, Canada. mdmm@muscia.mcgill.ca

Naturally occurring variations in maternal care alter the expression of genes
that regulate behavioral and endocrine responses to stress, as well as
hippocampal synaptic development. These effects form the basis for the
development of stable, individual differences in stress reactivity and certain
forms of cognition. Maternal care also influences the maternal behavior of female
offspring, an effect that appears to be related to oxytocin receptor gene
expression, and which forms the basis for the intergenerational transmission of
individual differences in stress reactivity. Patterns of maternal care that
increase stress reactivity in offspring are enhanced by stressors imposed on the 
mother. These findings provide evidence for the importance of parental care as a 
mediator of the effects of environmental adversity on neural development.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.1161 
PMID: 11520931  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:1121-59.

Neurodegenerative tauopathies.

Lee VM(1), Goedert M, Trojanowski JQ.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurodegenerative Disease Research, Department of Pathology and
Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19104, USA. vmylee@mail.med.upenn.edu

The defining neuropathological characteristics of Alzheimer's disease are
abundant filamentous tau lesions and deposits of fibrillar amyloid beta peptides.
Prominent filamentous tau inclusions and brain degeneration in the absence of
beta-amyloid deposits are also hallmarks of neurodegenerative tauopathies
exemplified by sporadic corticobasal degeneration, progressive supranuclear
palsy, and Pick's disease, as well as by hereditary frontotemporal dementia and
parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17). Because multiple tau gene
mutations are pathogenic for FTDP-17 and tau polymorphisms appear to be genetic
risk factors for sporadic progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal
degeneration, tau abnormalities are linked directly to the etiology and
pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disease. Indeed, emerging data support the
hypothesis that different tau gene mutations are pathogenic because they impair
tau functions, promote tau fibrillization, or perturb tau gene splicing, thereby 
leading to formation of biochemically and structurally distinct aggregates of
tau. Nonetheless, different members of the same kindred often exhibit diverse
FTDP-17 syndromes, which suggests that additional genetic or epigenetic factors
influence the phenotypic manifestations of neurodegenerative tauopathies.
Although these and other hypothetical mechanisms of neurodegenerative tauopathies
remain to be tested and validated, transgenic models are increasingly available
for this purpose, and they will accelerate discovery of more effective therapies 
for neurodegenerative tauopathies and related disorders, including Alzheimer's
disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.1121 
PMID: 11520930  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:1091-119.

Stopping time: the genetics of fly and mouse circadian clocks.

Allada R(1), Emery P, Takahashi JS, Rosbash M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Evanston, IL 60208, USA. r-allada@northwestern.edu

Forward genetic analyses in flies and mice have uncovered conserved
transcriptional feedback loops at the heart of circadian pacemakers. Conserved
mechanisms of posttranslational regulation, most notably phosphorylation, appear 
to be important for timing feedback. Transcript analyses have indicated that
circadian clocks are not restricted to neurons but are found in several tissues. 
Comparisons between flies and mice highlight important differences in molecular
circuitry and circadian organization. Future studies of pacemaker mechanisms and 
their control of physiology and behavior will likely continue to rely on forward 
genetics.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.1091 
PMID: 11520929  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:1071-89.

Morphological changes in dendritic spines associated with long-term synaptic
plasticity.

Yuste R(1), Bonhoeffer T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027,
USA. rmy5@columbia.edu

Dendritic spines are morphological specializations that receive synaptic inputs
and compartmentalize calcium. In spite of a long history of research, the
specific function of spines is still not well understood. Here we review the
current status of the relation between morphological changes in spines and
synaptic plasticity. Since Cajal and Tanzi proposed that changes in the structure
of the brain might occur as a consequence of experience, the search for the
morphological correlates of learning has constituted one of the central questions
in neuroscience. Although there are scores of studies that encompass this wide
field in many species, in this review we focus on experimental work that has
analyzed the morphological consequences of hippocampal long-term potentiation
(LTP) in rodents. Over the past two decades many studies have demonstrated
changes in the morphology of spines after LTP, such as enlargements of the spine 
head and shortenings of the spine neck. Biophysically, these changes translate
into an increase in the synaptic current injected at the spine, as well as
shortening of the time constant for calcium compartmentalization. In addition,
recent online studies using time-lapse imaging have reported increased
spinogenesis. The currently available data show a strong correlation between
synaptic plasticity and morphological changes in spines, although at the same
time, there is no evidence that these morphological changes are necessary or
sufficient for the induction or maintenance of LTP. Still, they highlight once
more how form and function go hand in hand in the central nervous system.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.1071 
PMID: 11520928  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:1041-70.

Human brain malformations and their lessons for neuronal migration.

Ross ME(1), Walsh CA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota
55455, USA. rossx001@tc.umn.edu

The developmental steps required to build a brain have been recognized as a
distinctive sequence since the turn of the twentieth century. As marking tools
for experimental embryology emerged, the cellular events of cortical histogenesis
have been intensively scrutinized. On this rich backdrop, molecular genetics
provides the opportunity to play out the molecular programs that orchestrate
these cellular events. Genetic studies of human brain malformation have proven a 
surprising source for finding the molecules that regulate CNS neuronal migration.
These studies also serve to relate the significance of genes first identified in 
murine species to the more complex human brain. The known genetic repertoire that
is special to neuronal migration in brain has rapidly expanded over the past five
years, making this an appropriate time to take stock of the emerging picture. We 
do this from the perspective of human brain malformation syndromes, noting both
what is now known of their genetic bases and what remains to be discovered.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.1041 
PMID: 11520927  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:1005-39.

Role of the reelin signaling pathway in central nervous system development.

Rice DS(1), Curran T.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Neurobiology, St. Jude Children's Research
Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee 38105, USA. dennis.rice@stjude.org

The neurological mutant mouse reeler has played a critical role in the evolution 
of our understanding of normal brain development. From the earliest neuroanatomic
studies of reeler, it was anticipated that the characterization of the gene
responsible would elucidate important molecular and cellular principles governing
cell positioning and the formation of synaptic circuits in the developing brain. 
Indeed, the identification of reelin has challenged many of our previous notions 
and has led to a new vision of the events involved in the migration of neurons.
Several neuronal populations throughout the brain secrete Reelin, which binds to 
transmembrane receptors located on adjacent cells triggering a tyrosine kinase
cascade. This allows neurons to complete migration and adopt their ultimate
positions in laminar structures in the central nervous system. Recent studies
have also suggested a role for the Reelin pathway in axonal branching,
synaptogenesis, and pathology underlying neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.1005 
PMID: 11520926  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:981-1004.

The role of the cerebellum in voluntary eye movements.

Robinson FR(1), Fuchs AF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Structure University of Washington, Seattle,
Washington 98195-7420, USA. robinsn@u.washington.edu

In general the cerebellum is crucial for the control but not the initiation of
movement. Voluntary eye movements are particularly useful for investigating the
specific mechanisms underlying cerebellar control because they are precise and
their brain-stem circuitry is already well understood. Here we describe
single-unit and inactivation data showing that the posterior vermis and the
caudal fastigial nucleus, to which it projects, provide a signal during
horizontal saccades to make them fast, accurate, and consistent. The caudal
fastigial nucleus also is necessary for the recovery of saccadic accuracy after
actual or simulated neural or muscular damage causes horizontal saccades to be
dysmetric. Saccade-related activity in the interpositus nucleus is related to
vertical saccades. Both the caudal fastigial nucleus and the
flocculus/paraflocculus are necessary for the normal smooth eye movements that
pursue a small moving spot. By using eye movements, we have begun to uncover
basic principles that give us insight into how the cerebellum may control
movement in general.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.981 
PMID: 11520925  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:963-79.

Imaging and coding in the olfactory system.

Kauer JS(1), White J.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Tufts University School of Medicine, 136 Harrison 
Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA. john.kauer@tufts.edu

Functional imaging methods permit analysis of neuronal systems in which activity 
is broadly distributed in time and space. In the olfactory system the dimensions 
that describe odorant stimuli in "odorant space" are still poorly defined. One
way of trying to characterize the attributes of this space is to examine the ways
in which its dimensions are encoded by the neurons and circuits making up the
system and to compare these responses with physical-chemical attributes of the
stimuli and with the output behavior of the animal. For documenting distributed
events as they occur, imaging methods are among the few tools available. We are
still in the early stages of this analysis; however, a number of recent studies
have contributed new information to our understanding of the odorant coding
problem. This paper describes imaging results in the context of other data that
have contributed to our understanding of how odors are encoded by the peripheral 
olfactory pathway.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.963 
PMID: 11520924  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:933-62.

alpha-Latrotoxin and its receptors: neurexins and CIRL/latrophilins.

Südhof TC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Center for Basic Neuroscience, and the
Department of Molecular Genetics, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center at Dallas, Texas 75390-9111, USA. Thomas.Sudhof@UTSouthwestern.edu

alpha-Latrotoxin, a potent neurotoxin from black widow spider venom, triggers
synaptic vesicle exocytosis from presynaptic nerve terminals. alpha-Latrotoxin is
a large protein toxin (120 kDa) that contains 22 ankyrin repeats. In stimulating 
exocytosis, alpha-latrotoxin binds to two distinct families of neuronal
cell-surface receptors, neurexins and CLs (Cirl/latrophilins), which probably
have a physiological function in synaptic cell adhesion. Binding of
alpha-latrotoxin to these receptors does not in itself trigger exocytosis but
serves to recruit the toxin to the synapse. Receptor-bound alpha-latrotoxin then 
inserts into the presynaptic plasma membrane to stimulate exocytosis by two
distinct transmitter-specific mechanisms. Exocytosis of classical
neurotransmitters (glutamate, GABA, acetylcholine) is induced in a
calcium-independent manner by a direct intracellular action of alpha-latrotoxin, 
while exocytosis of catecholamines requires extracellular calcium. Elucidation of
precisely how alpha-latrotoxin works is likely to provide major insight into how 
synaptic vesicle exocytosis is regulated, and how the release machineries of
classical and catecholaminergic neurotransmitters differ.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.933 
PMID: 11520923  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:897-931.

Neurobiology of Pavlovian fear conditioning.

Maren S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience Program, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109-1109, USA. maren@umich.edu

Learning the relationships between aversive events and the environmental stimuli 
that predict such events is essential to the survival of organisms throughout the
animal kingdom. Pavlovian fear conditioning is an exemplar of this form of
learning that is exhibited by both rats and humans. Recent years have seen an
incredible surge in interest in the neurobiology of fear conditioning. Neural
circuits underlying fear conditioning have been mapped, synaptic plasticity in
these circuits has been identified, and biochemical and genetic manipulations are
beginning to unravel the molecular machinery responsible for the storage of fear 
memories. These advances represent an important step in understanding the neural 
substrates of a rapidly acquired and adaptive form of associative learning and
memory in mammals.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.897 
PMID: 11520922  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:869-96.

Early anterior/posterior patterning of the midbrain and cerebellum.

Liu A(1), Joyner AL.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Developmental Genetics Program, Skirball
Institute of Biomolecular Medicine, Department of Cell Biology, New York
University School of Medicine, New York, NY 10016, USA. liua02@saturn.med.nyu.edu

Transplantation studies performed in chicken embryos indicated that early
anterior/posterior patterning of the vertebrate midbrain and cerebellum might be 
regulated by an organizing center at the junction between the midbrain and
hindbrain. More than a decade of molecular and genetic studies have shown that
such an organizer is indeed central to development of the midbrain and anterior
hindbrain. Furthermore, a complicated molecular network that includes multiple
positive and negative feedback loops underlies the establishment and refinement
of a mid/hindbrain organizer, as well as the subsequent function of the
organizer. In this review, we first introduce the expression patterns of the
genes known to be involved in this patterning process and the quail-chick
transplantation experiments that have provided the foundation for understanding
the genetic pathways regulating mid/hindbrain patterning. Subsequently, we
discuss the molecular genetic studies that have revealed the roles for many genes
in normal early patterning of this region. Finally, some of the remaining
questions and future directions are discussed.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.869 
PMID: 11520921  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:845-67.

Quantitative genetics and mouse behavior.

Wehner JM(1), Radcliffe RA, Bowers BJ.

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics and Department of Psychology, University of 
Colorado, Boulder, Colorado 80309, USA. Jeanne.Wehner@Colorado.edu

Quantitative differences are observed for most complex behavioral and
pharmacological traits within any population. Both environmental and genetic
influences regulate such individual differences. The mouse has proven to be a
superb model in which to investigate the genetic basis for quantitative
differences in complex behaviors. Genetically defined populations of mice,
including inbred strains, heterogeneous stocks, and selected lines, have been
used effectively to document these genetic differences. Recently, quantitative
trait loci methods have been applied to map the chromosomal regions that regulate
variation with the goal of eventually identifying the gene polymorphisms that
reside in these regions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.845 
PMID: 11520920  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:807-43.

Activity-dependent spinal cord plasticity in health and disease.

Wolpaw JR(1), Tennissen AM.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Nervous System Disorders, Wadsworth Center, New York State
Department of Health and State University of New York, Albany, New York
12201-0509, USA. wolpaw@wadsworth.org

Activity-dependent plasticity occurs in the spinal cord throughout life. Driven
by input from the periphery and the brain, this plasticity plays an important
role in the acquisition and maintenance of motor skills and in the effects of
spinal cord injury and other central nervous system disorders. The responses of
the isolated spinal cord to sensory input display sensitization, long-term
potentiation, and related phenomena that contribute to chronic pain syndromes;
they can also be modified by both classical and operant conditioning protocols.
In animals with transected spinal cords and in humans with spinal cord injuries, 
treadmill training gradually modifies the spinal cord so as to improve
performance. These adaptations by the isolated spinal cord are specific to the
training regimen and underlie new approaches to restoring function after spinal
cord injury. Descending inputs from the brain that occur during normal
development, as a result of supraspinal trauma, and during skill acquisition
change the spinal cord. The early development of adult spinal cord reflex
patterns is driven by descending activity; disorders that disrupt descending
activity later in life gradually change spinal cord reflexes. Athletic training, 
such as that undertaken by ballet dancers, is associated with gradual alterations
in spinal reflexes that appear to contribute to skill acquisition. Operant
conditioning protocols in animals and humans can produce comparable reflex
changes and are associated with functional and structural plasticity in the
spinal cord, including changes in motoneuron firing threshold and axonal
conduction velocity, and in synaptic terminals on motoneurons. The corticospinal 
tract has a key role in producing this plasticity. Behavioral changes produced by
practice or injury reflect the combination of plasticity at multiple spinal cord 
and supraspinal sites. Plasticity at multiple sites is both necessary-to insure
continued performance of previously acquired behaviors-and inevitable-due to the 
ubiquity of the capacity for activity-dependent plasticity in the central nervous
system. Appropriate induction and guidance of activity-dependent plasticity in
the spinal cord is an essential component of new therapeutic approaches aimed at 
maximizing function after spinal cord injury or restoring function to a newly
regenerated spinal cord. Because plasticity in the spinal cord contributes to
skill acquisition and because the spinal cord is relatively simple and
accessible, this plasticity is a logical and practical starting point for
studying the acquisition and maintenance of skilled behaviors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.807 
PMID: 11520919  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:779-805.

Activation, deactivation, and adaptation in vertebrate photoreceptor cells.

Burns ME(1), Baylor DA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University Medical Center, Stanford,
California 94305, USA. mburns@stanford.edu dbaylor@stanford.edu

Visual transduction captures widespread interest because its G-protein signaling 
motif recurs throughout nature yet is uniquely accessible for study in the
photoreceptor cells. The light-activated currents generated at the photoreceptor 
outer segment provide an easily observed real-time measure of the output of the
signaling cascade, and the ease of obtaining pure samples of outer segments in
reasonable quantity facilitates biochemical experiments. A quiet revolution in
the study of the mechanism has occurred during the past decade with the advent of
gene-targeting techniques. These have made it possible to observe how
transduction is perturbed by the deletion, overexpression, or mutation of
specific components of the transduction apparatus.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.779 
PMID: 11520918  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:737-77.

Contributions of the medullary raphe and ventromedial reticular region to pain
modulation and other homeostatic functions.

Mason P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637,
USA. p-mason@uchicago.edu

The raphe magnus is part of an interrelated region of medullary raphe and
ventromedial reticular nuclei that project to all areas of the spinal gray.
Activation of raphe and reticular neurons evokes modulatory effects in sensory,
autonomic, and motor spinal processes. Two physiological types of nonserotonergic
cells are observed in the medullary raphe and are thought to modulate spinal pain
processing in opposing directions. Recent evidence suggests that these cells may 
modulate stimulus-evoked arousal or alerting rather than pain-evoked withdrawals.
Nonserotonergic cells are also likely to modulate spinal autonomic and motor
circuits involved in thermoregulation and sexual function. Medullary serotonergic
cells have state-dependent discharge and are likely to contribute to the
modulation of pain processing, thermoregulation, and sexual function in the
spinal cord. The medullary raphe and ventromedial reticular region may set
sensory, autonomic, and motor spinal circuits into configurations that are
appropriate to the current behavioral state.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.737 
PMID: 11520917  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:677-736.

Neurotrophins: roles in neuronal development and function.

Huang EJ(1), Reichardt LF.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, University of California, San Francisco, California
94143, USA. ejhuang@itsa.ucsf.edu

Neurotrophins regulate development, maintenance, and function of vertebrate
nervous systems. Neurotrophins activate two different classes of receptors, the
Trk family of receptor tyrosine kinases and p75NTR, a member of the TNF receptor 
superfamily. Through these, neurotrophins activate many signaling pathways,
including those mediated by ras and members of the cdc-42/ras/rho G protein
families, and the MAP kinase, PI-3 kinase, and Jun kinase cascades. During
development, limiting amounts of neurotrophins function as survival factors to
ensure a match between the number of surviving neurons and the requirement for
appropriate target innervation. They also regulate cell fate decisions, axon
growth, dendrite pruning, the patterning of innervation and the expression of
proteins crucial for normal neuronal function, such as neurotransmitters and ion 
channels. These proteins also regulate many aspects of neural function. In the
mature nervous system, they control synaptic function and synaptic plasticity,
while continuing to modulate neuronal survival.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.677 
PMCID: PMC2758233
PMID: 11520916  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:653-75.

Influence of dendritic conductances on the input-output properties of neurons.

Reyes A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York, New York 10003, USA.
reyes@cns.nyu.edu

A fundamental problem in neuroscience is understanding how a neuron transduces
synaptic input into action potentials. The dendrites form the substrate for
consolidating thousands of synaptic inputs and are the first stage for signal
processing in the neuron. Traditionally, dendrites are viewed as passive
structures whose main function is to funnel synaptic input into the soma.
However, dendrites contain a wide variety of voltage- and time-dependent ion
channels. When activated, the currents through these channels can alter the
amplitude and time course of the synaptic input and under certain conditions even
evoke all-or-none regenerative potentials. The synaptic input that ultimately
reaches the soma is likely to be a highly transformed version of the original
signal. Thus, a key step in understanding the relationship between synaptic input
and neuronal firing is to elucidate the signal processing that occurs in the
dendrites.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.653 
PMID: 11520915  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:631-51.

Sequential organization of multiple movements: involvement of cortical motor
areas.

Tanji J(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Sendai 980,
Japan. tanjij@mail.cc.tohoku.ac.jp

Much of our normal behavior depends on the sequential execution of multiphased
movements, or the execution of multiple movements arranged in a correct temporal 
order. This article deals with the issue of motor selection to arrange multiple
movements in an appropriate temporal order, rather than the issue of constructing
spatio-temporal structures in a single action. Planning, generating, and
controlling the sequential motor behavior involves multiple cortical and
subcortical neural structures. Studies on human subjects and nonhuman primates,
however, have revealed that the medial motor areas in the frontal cortex and the 
basal ganglia play particularly important roles in the temporal sequencing of
multiple movements. Cellular activity observed in the supplementary and
presupplementary motor areas while performing specifically designed motor tasks
suggests the way in which these areas take part in constructing the time
structure for the sequential execution of multiple movements.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.631 
PMID: 11520914  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:601-29.

Early days of the nerve growth factor proteins.

Shooter EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California 94305-5125, USA. eshooter@cmgm.stanford.edu

Adult male mouse submaxillary glands served as the preferred starting material
for the isolation of the nerve growth factor (NGF) proteins in most of the
isolation studies done. Two types of NGF proteins were isolated from extracts of 
the gland, a high-molecular-weight 7S NGF complex and a low-molecular-weight
protein variously called NGF, betaNGF, or 2.5S NGF. The latter, which mediated
all known biological functions of NGF, were closely related forms of a basic NGF 
dimer in which the N and C termini of two monomers (chains) were modified by
proteolytic enzymes to different extents with no effect on biological activity.
The betaNGF dimer showed a novel protein structure in which the two chains
interacted non-covalently over a wide surface. Correspondingly, the betaNGF dimer
was found to be unusually stable and the form through which NGFs actions were
mediated at physiological concentrations. The betaNGF dimer was one of three
subunits in 7S NGF; the other two were the gamma subunit, an arginine
esteropeptidase or kallikrein, and the alpha subunit, an inactive kallikrein. Two
zinc ions were also present in the complex and contributed greatly to its
stability. There was much debate about whether 7S NGF was a specific protein
complex of interacting subunits and, if so, what functions it might play in the
biology of NGF. Observations of the inhibition of the enzyme activity of the
gamma subunit and of the biological activity of betaNGF in 7S NGF were important 
in determining that 7S NGF was a naturally occurring complex and the sole source 
of NGF in the gland extract or in saliva. Specific interactions between the
active site of the gamma subunit and the C-terminal arginine residues of the NGF 
chains, confirmed in the three-dimensional structure of 7S NGF, suggested a role 
for the gamma subunit in pro-NGF processing during the assembly of 7S NGF. In
spite of the detailed knowledge of 7S NGF structure, no information on the role
of this complex in the neurobiology of NGF has emerged. With the exception of the
submaxillary gland of an African rodent, no other source of NGF has been
convincingly shown to synthesize the alpha and gamma subunits, and they may well 
be irrelevant to NGFs actions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.601 
PMID: 11283322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:551-600.

Viktor Hamburger and Rita Levi-Montalcini: the path to the discovery of nerve
growth factor.

Cowan WM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815, USA.

The announcement in October 1986 that the Nobel Prize for physiology or medicine 
was to be awarded to Rita Levi-Montalcini and Stanley Cohen for the discoveries
of NGF and EGF, respectively, caused many to wonder why Viktor Hamburger (in
whose laboratory the initial work was done) had not been included in the award.
Now that the dust has settled, the time seems opportune to reconsider the
antecedent studies on the relation of the developing nervous system to the
peripheral structures it innervates. The studies undertaken primarily to
investigate this issue culminated in the late 1950s in the discovery that certain
tissues produce a nerve growth-promoting factor that is essential for the
survival and maintenance of spinal (sensory) ganglion cells and sympathetic
neurons. In this review, the many contributions that Viktor and Rita made to this
problem, both independently and jointly, are reexamined by considering
chronologically each of the relevant research publications together with some of 
the retrospective memoirs they have published in the years since the discovery of
NGF was first reported.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.551 
PMID: 11283321  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:519-50.

Prion diseases of humans and animals: their causes and molecular basis.

Collinge J(1).

Author information: 
(1)MRC Prion Unit and Department of Neurogenetics, Imperial College School of
Medicine at St. Mary's, London, United Kingdom. J.Collinge@ic.ac.uk

Prion diseases are transmissible neurodegenerative conditions that include
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) in humans and bovine spongiform encephalopathy
(BSE) and scrapie in animals. Prions appear to be composed principally or
entirely of abnormal isoforms of a host-encoded glycoprotein, prion protein.
Prion propagation involves recruitment of host cellular prion protein, composed
primarily of alpha-helical structure, into a disease specific isoform rich in
beta-sheet structure. The existence of multiple prion strains has been difficult 
to explain in terms of a protein-only infections agent, but recent studies
suggest that strain specific phenotypes can be encoded by different prion protein
conformations and glycosylation patterns. The ability of a protein to encode
phenotypic information has important biological implications. The appearance of a
novel human prion disease, variant CJD, and the clear experimental evidence that 
it is caused by exposure to BSE has highlighted the need to understand the
molecular basis of prion propagation, pathogenesis, and the barriers limiting
intermammalian transmission. It is unclear if a large epidemic of variant CJD
will occur in the years ahead.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.519 
PMID: 11283320  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:487-517.

The vanilloid receptor: a molecular gateway to the pain pathway.

Caterina MJ(1), Julius D.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Johns Hopkins University School of
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. caterina@jhmi.edu

The detection of painful stimuli occurs primarily at the peripheral terminals of 
specialized sensory neurons called nociceptors. These small-diameter neurons
transduce signals of a chemical, mechanical, or thermal nature into action
potentials and transmit this information to the central nervous system,
ultimately eliciting a perception of pain or discomfort. Little is known about
the proteins that detect noxious stimuli, especially those of a physical nature. 
Here we review recent advances in the molecular characterization of the capsaicin
(vanilloid) receptor, an excitatory ion channel expressed by nociceptors, which
contributes to the detection and integration of pain-producing chemical and
thermal stimuli. The analysis of vanilloid receptor gene knockout mice confirms
the involvement of this channel in pain sensation, as well as in hypersensitivity
to noxious stimuli following tissue injury. At the same time, these studies
demonstrate the existence of redundant mechanisms for the sensation of
heat-evoked pain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.487 
PMID: 11283319  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:459-86.

Spatial processing in the brain: the activity of hippocampal place cells.

Best PJ(1), White AM, Minai A.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Center for Neuroscience, Miami University,
Oxford, Ohio 45056, USA. bestpj@muohio.edu

The startling discovery by O'Keefe & Dostrovsky (Brain Res. 1971; 34: 171-75)
that hippocampal neurons fire selectively in different regions or "place fields" 
of an environment and the subsequent development of the comprehensive theory by
O'Keefe & Nadel (The Hippocampus as a Cognitive Map. Oxford, UK: Clarendon, 1978)
that the hippocampus serves as a cognitive map have stimulated a substantial body
of literature on the characteristics of hippocampal "place cells" and their
relevance for our understanding of the mechanisms by which the brain processes
spatial information. This paper reviews the major dimensions of the empirical
research on place-cell activity and the development of computational models to
explain various characteristics of place fields.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.459 
PMID: 11283318  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:429-58.

To eat or to sleep? Orexin in the regulation of feeding and wakefulness.

Willie JT(1), Chemelli RM, Sinton CM, Yanagisawa M.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center at Dallas, 75390-9050, USA. willie.jon@tumora.swmed.edu

Orexin-A and orexin-B are neuropeptides originally identified as endogenous
ligands for two orphan G-protein-coupled receptors. Orexin neuropeptides (also
known as hypocretins) are produced by a small group of neurons in the lateral
hypothalamic and perifornical areas, a region classically implicated in the
control of mammalian feeding behavior. Orexin neurons project throughout the
central nervous system (CNS) to nuclei known to be important in the control of
feeding, sleep-wakefulness, neuroendocrine homeostasis, and autonomic regulation.
orexin mRNA expression is upregulated by fasting and insulin-induced
hypoglycemia. C-fos expression in orexin neurons, an indicator of neuronal
activation, is positively correlated with wakefulness and negatively correlated
with rapid eye movement (REM) and non-REM sleep states. Intracerebroventricular
administration of orexins has been shown to significantly increase food
consumption, wakefulness, and locomotor activity in rodent models. Conversely, an
orexin receptor antagonist inhibits food consumption. Targeted disruption of the 
orexin gene in mice produces a syndrome remarkably similar to human and canine
narcolepsy, a sleep disorder characterized by excessive daytime sleepiness,
cataplexy, and other pathological manifestations of the intrusion of REM
sleep-related features into wakefulness. Furthermore, orexin knockout mice are
hypophagic compared with weight and age-matched littermates, suggesting a role in
modulating energy metabolism. These findings suggest that the orexin neuropeptide
system plays a significant role in feeding and sleep-wakefulness regulation,
possibly by coordinating the complex behavioral and physiologic responses of
these complementary homeostatic functions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.429 
PMID: 11283317  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:385-428.

The developmental biology of brain tumors.

Wechsler-Reya R(1), Scott MP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Developmental Biology and Howard Hughes Medical Institute,
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, California 94305-5329, USA.
rwreya@cmgm.stanford.edu

Tumors of the central nervous system (CNS) can be devastating because they often 
affect children, are difficult to treat, and frequently cause mental impairment
or death. New insights into the causes and potential treatment of CNS tumors have
come from discovering connections with genes that control cell growth,
differentiation, and death during normal development. Links between tumorigenesis
and normal development are illustrated by three common CNS tumors:
retinoblastoma, glioblastoma, and medulloblastoma. For example, the
retinoblastoma (Rb) tumor suppressor protein is crucial for control of normal
neuronal differentiation and apoptosis. Excessive activity of the epidermal
growth factor receptor and loss of the phosphatase PTEN are associated with
glioblastoma, and both genes are required for normal growth and development. The 
membrane protein Patched1 (Ptc1), which controls cell fate in many tissues,
regulates cell growth in the cerebellum, and reduced Ptc1 function contributes to
medulloblastoma. Just as elucidating the mechanisms that control normal
development can lead to the identification of new cancer-related genes and
signaling pathways, studies of tumor biology can increase our understanding of
normal development. Learning that Ptc1 is a medulloblastoma tumor suppressor led 
directly to the identification of the Ptc1 ligand, Sonic hedgehog, as a powerful 
mitogen for cerebellar granule cell precursors. Much remains to be learned about 
the genetic events that lead to brain tumors and how each event regulates cell
cycle progression, apoptosis, and differentiation. The prospects for beneficial
work at the boundary between oncology and developmental biology are great.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.385 
PMID: 11283316  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:357-84.

Neuropeptides and the integration of motor responses to dehydration.

Watts AG(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Neuroscience Program and the Department of Biological Sciences, University
of Southern California, Los Angeles, California 90089-2520, USA.
watts@rcf.usc.edu

Drinking and eating are critically important motivated behaviors whose expression
is usually tightly linked; under conditions of spontaneous intake, disruption of 
one usually disturbs the other. This characteristic is exemplified by
dehydration-induced anorexia in which increasing plasma osmolality leads to a
centrally generated reduction in food intake, which is then rapidly reversed as
water is again made available. This review discusses, at a systems level, how the
brain is organized to generate these behaviors and how dehydration affects the
expression of neuropeptides in sets of anatomically defined forebrain circuits
that contribute to the integration of motor outputs. These findings are then used
to consider how altered neuropeptidergic signaling operates within motor drive
networks and how these changes may impact the way neuroendocrine, autonomic, and 
behavioral motor systems respond to this fundamental homeostatic challenge.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.357 
PMID: 11283315  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:327-55.

Signaling and transcriptional mechanisms in pituitary development.

Dasen JS(1), Rosenfeld MG.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Cellular and Molecular Medicine, University
of California, San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0648, USA. jdasen@ucsd.edu

During the development of the pituitary gland, distinct hormone-producing cell
types arise from a common population of ectodermal progenitors, providing an
instructive model system for elucidating the molecular mechanisms of patterning
and cell type specification in mammalian organogenesis. Recent studies have
established that the development of the pituitary occurs through multiple
sequential steps, allowing the coordinate control of the commitment, early
patterning, proliferation, and positional determination of pituitary cell
lineages in response to extrinsic and intrinsic signals. The early phases of
pituitary development appear to be mediated through the activities of multiple
signaling gradients emanating from key organizing centers that give rise to
temporally and spatially distinct patterns of transcription factor expression.
The induction of these transcriptional mediators in turn acts to positionally
organize specific pituitary cell lineages within an apparently uniform field of
ectodermal progenitors. Ultimately, pituitary cell types have proven to be both
specified and maintained through the combinatorial interactions of a series of
cell-type-restricted transcription factors that dictate the cell autonomous
programs of differentiation in response to the transient signaling events.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.327 
PMID: 11283314  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:299-325.

Protein synthesis at synaptic sites on dendrites.

Steward O(1), Schuman EM.

Author information: 
(1)Reeve-Irvine Research Center and Departments of Anatomy/Neurobiology and
Neurobiology and Behavior, College of Medicine, University of California at
Irvine, Irvine, California 92697, USA. osteward@uci.edu

Studies over the past 20 years have revealed that gene expression in neurons is
carried out by a distributed network of translational machinery. One component of
this network is localized in dendrites, where polyribosomes and associated
membranous elements are positioned beneath synapses and translate a particular
population of dendritic mRNAs. The localization of translation machinery and
mRNAs at synapses endows individual synapses with the capability to independently
control synaptic strength through the local synthesis of proteins. The present
review discusses recent studies linking synaptic plasticity to dendritic protein 
synthesis and mRNA trafficking and considers how these processes are regulated.
We summarize recent information about how synaptic signaling is coupled to local 
translation and to the delivery of newly transcribed mRNAs to activated synaptic 
sites and how local translation may play a role in activity-dependent synaptic
modification.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.299 
PMID: 11283313  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


361. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:263-97.

Odor encoding as an active, dynamical process: experiments, computation, and
theory.

Laurent G(1), Stopfer M, Friedrich RW, Rabinovich MI, Volkovskii A, Abarbanel HD.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology 139-74, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena,
California 91125, USA. laurentg@caltech.edu

We examine early olfactory processing in the vertebrate and insect olfactory
systems, using a computational perspective. What transformations occur between
the first and second olfactory processing stages? What are the causes and
consequences of these transformations? To answer these questions, we focus on the
functions of olfactory circuit structure and on the role of time in odor-evoked
integrative processes. We argue that early olfactory relays are active and
dynamical networks, whose actions change the format of odor-related information
in very specific ways, so as to refine stimulus identification. Finally, we
introduce a new theoretical framework ("winnerless competition") for the
interpretation of these data.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.263 
PMID: 11283312  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:239-62.

Paraneoplastic neurologic disease antigens: RNA-binding proteins and signaling
proteins in neuronal degeneration.

Musunuru K(1), Darnell RB.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Neuro-Oncology, The Rockefeller University, New York, 
New York 10021, USA. musunuk@rockvax.rockefeller.edu

Studies of the disorders known as paraneoplastic neurologic degenerations
exemplify the successful application of modern molecular biological techniques to
diseases, yielding, even for these extremely rare disorders, wide-ranging insight
into basic neurobiology, tumor immunity, and autoimmune neurologic disease.
Immune responses to paraneoplastic neurologic degeneration antigens, also called 
onconeural antigens, have been exploited to clone and characterize a number of
neuron-specific proteins, including several RNA-binding proteins and new kinds of
signaling molecules. The biology and functions of these proteins are reviewed,
and a model in which their functions are related to the pathogenesis of
autoimmune neurologic disease is discussed.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.239 
PMID: 11283311  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:203-38.

The physiology of stereopsis.

Cumming BG(1), DeAngelis GC.

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, Oxford, OX1 3PT United Kingdom.
bgc@lsr.nei.nih.gov

Binocular disparity provides the visual system with information concerning the
three-dimensional layout of the environment. Recent physiological studies in the 
primary visual cortex provide a successful account of the mechanisms by which
single neurons are able to signal disparity. This work also reveals that
additional processing is required to make explicit the types of signal required
for depth perception (such as the ability to match features correctly between the
two monocular images). Some of these signals, such as those encoding relative
disparity, are found in extrastriate cortex. Several other lines of evidence also
suggest that the link between perception and neuronal activity is stronger in
extrastriate cortex (especially MT) than in the primary visual cortex.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.203 
PMID: 11283310  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:167-202.

An integrative theory of prefrontal cortex function.

Miller EK(1), Cohen JD.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Learning and Memory, RIKEN-MIT Neuroscience Research Center and
Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA. ekm@ai.mit.edu

The prefrontal cortex has long been suspected to play an important role in
cognitive control, in the ability to orchestrate thought and action in accordance
with internal goals. Its neural basis, however, has remained a mystery. Here, we 
propose that cognitive control stems from the active maintenance of patterns of
activity in the prefrontal cortex that represent goals and the means to achieve
them. They provide bias signals to other brain structures whose net effect is to 
guide the flow of activity along neural pathways that establish the proper
mappings between inputs, internal states, and outputs needed to perform a given
task. We review neurophysiological, neurobiological, neuroimaging, and
computational studies that support this theory and discuss its implications as
well as further issues to be addressed

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.167 
PMID: 11283309  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:139-66.

Synaptic modification by correlated activity: Hebb's postulate revisited.

Bi G(1), Poo M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular & Cell Biology, University of California at Berkeley, 
Berkeley, CA 94720-3200, USA. gqbi@pitt.edu

Correlated spiking of pre- and postsynaptic neurons can result in strengthening
or weakening of synapses, depending on the temporal order of spiking. Recent
findings indicate that there are narrow and cell type-specific temporal windows
for such synaptic modification and that the generally accepted input- (or
synapse-) specific rule for modification appears not to be strictly adhered to.
Spike timing-dependent modifications, together with selective spread of synaptic 
changes, provide a set of cellular mechanisms that are likely to be important for
the development and functioning of neural networks. When an axon of cell A is
near enough to excite cell B or repeatedly or consistently takes part in firing
it, some growth or metabolic change takes place in one or both cells such that
A's efficiency, as one of the cells firing B, is increased.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.139 
PMID: 11283308  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:107-37.

Touch and go: decision-making mechanisms in somatosensation.

Romo R(1), Salinas E.

Author information: 
(1)Instituto de Fisiología Celular, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México,
04510 México, D.F. México. rromo@ifisiol.unam.mx

A complex sequence of neural events unfolds between sensory receptor activation
and motor activity. To understand the underlying decision-making mechanisms
linking somatic sensation and action, we ask what components of the neural
activity evoked by a stimulus are directly related to psychophysical performance,
and how are they related. We find that single-neuron responses in primary and
secondary somatosensory cortices account for the observed performance of monkeys 
in vibrotactile discrimination tasks, and that neuronal and behavioral responses 
covary in single trials. This sensory activity, which provides input to memory
and decision-making mechanisms, is modulated by attention and behavioral context,
and microstimulation experiments indicate that it may trigger normal perceptual
experiences. Responses recorded in motor areas seem to reflect the output of
decision-making operations, which suggests that the ability to make decisions
occurs at the sensory-motor interface.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.107 
PMID: 11283307  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:87-105.

Glial control of neuronal development.

Lemke G(1).

Author information: 
(1)Molecular Neurobiology Laboratory, The Salk Institute, La Jolla, California
92037, USA. lemke@salk.edu

Reciprocal interactions between differentiating glial cells and neurons define
the course of nervous system development even before the point at which these two
cell types become definitively recognizable. Glial cells control the survival of 
associated neurons in both Drosophila and mammals, but this control is dependent 
on the prior neuronal triggering of glial cell fate commitment and trophic factor
expression. In mammals, the growth factor neuregulin-1 and its receptors of the
ErbB family play crucial roles in both events. Similarly, early differentiating
neurons and their associated glia rely on reciprocal signaling to establish the
basic axon scaffolds from which neuronal connections evolve. The importance of
this interactive signaling is illustrated by the action of glial transcription
factors and of glial axon guidance cues such as netrin and slit, which together
regulate the commissural crossing of pioneer axons at the neural midline. In
these and related events, the defining principle is one of mutually reinforced
and mutually dependent signaling that occurs in a network of developing neurons
and glia.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.87 
PMID: 11283306  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:57-86.

Localization and globalization in conscious vision.

Zeki S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Wellcome Department of Cognitive Neurology, University College London, WC1E
6BT, London United Kingdom. zeki.pa@ucl.ac.uk

The primate visual brain consists of many separate, functionally specialized
processing systems, each consisting of several apparently hierarchical stages or 
nodes. The evidence reviewed here leads me to speculate (a) that the processing
systems are autonomous with respect to one another, (b) that activity at each
node reaches a perceptual end point at a different time, resulting in a
perceptual asynchrony in vision, and (c) that, consequently, activity at each
node generates a microconsciousness. Visual consciousness is therefore
distributed in space and time, with the universal organizing principle of
abstraction applied separately within each processing system. The consequence of 
spatially and temporally distributed microconsciousnesses is that their
integration is a multistage, nonhierarchical process that may involve a neural
"glue."

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.57 
PMID: 11283305  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:31-55.

The role and regulation of adenosine in the central nervous system.

Dunwiddie TV(1), Masino SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Program in Neuroscience, University of Colorado
Health Sciences Center, Denver, Colorado 80262, USA. thom.dunwiddie@uchsc.edu

Adenosine is a modulator that has a pervasive and generally inhibitory effect on 
neuronal activity. Tonic activation of adenosine receptors by adenosine that is
normally present in the extracellular space in brain tissue leads to inhibitory
effects that appear to be mediated by both adenosine A1 and A2A receptors. Relief
from this tonic inhibition by receptor antagonists such as caffeine accounts for 
the excitatory actions of these agents. Characterization of the effects of
adenosine receptor agonists and antagonists has led to numerous hypotheses
concerning the role of this nucleoside. Previous work has established a role for 
adenosine in a diverse array of neural phenomena, which include regulation of
sleep and the level of arousal, neuroprotection, regulation of seizure
susceptibility, locomotor effects, analgesia, mediation of the effects of
ethanol, and chronic drug use.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.31 
PMID: 11283304  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2001;24:1-29.

PDZ domains and the organization of supramolecular complexes.

Sheng M(1), Sala C.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Neurobiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.
sheng@helix.mgh.harvard.edu

PDZ domains are modular protein interaction domains that bind in a
sequence-specific fashion to short C-terminal peptides or internal peptides that 
fold in a beta-finger. The diversity of PDZ binding specificities can be
explained by variable amino acids lining the peptide-binding groove of the PDZ
domain. Abundantly represented in Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila
melanogaster, and mammalian genomes, PDZ domains are frequently found in multiple
copies or are associated with other protein-binding motifs in multidomain
scaffold proteins. PDZ-containing proteins are typically involved in the assembly
of supramolecular complexes that perform localized signaling functions at
particular subcellular locations. Organization around a PDZ-based scaffold allows
the stable localization of interacting proteins and enhances the rate and
fidelity of signal transduction within the complex. Some PDZ-containing proteins 
are more dynamically regulated in distribution and may also be involved in the
trafficking of interacting proteins within the cell.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.24.1.1 
PMID: 11283303  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:777-811.

Pain genes?: natural variation and transgenic mutants.

Mogil JS(1), Yu L, Basbaum AI.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 61820,
USA. jmogil@s.psych.uiuc.edu

Like many other complex biological phenomena, pain is starting to be studied at
the level of the gene. Advances in molecular biological technology have allowed
the cloning, mapping, and sequencing of genes, and also the ability to disrupt
their function entirely (i.e. via transgenic knockouts). With these new tools at 
hand, pain researchers have begun in earnest the task of defining (a) which of
the 70,000-150,000 mammalian genes are involved in the mediation of pain, and (b)
which of the pain-relevant genes are polymorphic, contributing to both natural
variation in responses and pathology. Although there are only a few known
examples in which single gene mutations in humans are associated with pain
conditions (e.g. an inherited form of migraine and congenital insensitivity to
pain), it is likely that others will be identified. Concurrently, a variety of
genes have been implicated in both the transmission and control of "pain"
messages in animals. The present review summarizes current progress to these
ends, focusing on both transgenic (gene-->behavior) and classical genetic
(behavior-->gene) approaches in both humans and laboratory mice.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.777 
PMID: 10845081  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:743-75.

Parallel pathways for spectral coding in primate retina.

Dacey DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Structure, University of Washington, Seattle
98195-7420, USA. dmd@u.washington.edu

The primate retina is an exciting focus in neuroscience, where recent data from
molecular genetics, adaptive optics, anatomy, and physiology, together with
measures of human visual performance, are converging to provide new insights into
the retinal origins of color vision. Trichromatic color vision begins when the
image is sampled by short- (S), middle- (M) and long- (L) wavelength-sensitive
cone photoreceptors. Diverse retinal cell types combine the cone signals to
create separate luminance, red-green, and blue-yellow pathways. Each pathway is
associated with distinctive retinal architectures. Thus a blue-yellow pathway
originates in a bistratified ganglion cell type and associated interneurons that 
combine excitation from S cones and inhibition from L and M cones. By contrast, a
red-green pathway, in which signals from L and M cones are opposed, is associated
with the specialized anatomy of the primate fovea, in which the "midget" ganglion
cells receive dominant excitatory input from a single L or M cone.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.743 
PMID: 10845080  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:713-42.

Molecular genetics of circadian rhythms in mammals.

King DP(1), Takahashi JS.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois
60208, USA. davidk@nwu.edu

Recent gene discovery approaches have led to a new era in our understanding of
the molecular basis of circadian oscillators in animals. A conserved set of genes
in Drosophila and mammals (Clock, Bmal1, Period, and Timeless) provide a
molecular framework for the circadian mechanism. These genes define a
transcription-translation-based negative autoregulatory feedback loop that
comprises the core elements generating circadian rhythmicity. This circadian core
provides a focal point for understanding how circadian rhythms arise, how
environmental inputs entrain the oscillatory system, and how the circadian system
regulates its outputs. The addition of molecular genetic approaches to the
existing physiological understanding of the mammalian circadian system provides
new opportunities for understanding this basic life process.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.713 
PMID: 10845079  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:649-711.

Synaptic plasticity and memory: an evaluation of the hypothesis.

Martin SJ(1), Grimwood PD, Morris RG.

Author information: 
(1)Department and Centre for Neuroscience, University of Edinburgh, United
Kingdom. Stephen.Martin@ed.ac.uk

Changing the strength of connections between neurons is widely assumed to be the 
mechanism by which memory traces are encoded and stored in the central nervous
system. In its most general form, the synaptic plasticity and memory hypothesis
states that "activity-dependent synaptic plasticity is induced at appropriate
synapses during memory formation and is both necessary and sufficient for the
information storage underlying the type of memory mediated by the brain area in
which that plasticity is observed." We outline a set of criteria by which this
hypothesis can be judged and describe a range of experimental strategies used to 
investigate it. We review both classical and newly discovered properties of
synaptic plasticity and stress the importance of the neural architecture and
synaptic learning rules of the network in which it is embedded. The greater part 
of the article focuses on types of memory mediated by the hippocampus, amygdala, 
and cortex. We conclude that a wealth of data supports the notion that synaptic
plasticity is necessary for learning and memory, but that little data currently
supports the notion of sufficiency.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.649 
PMID: 10845078  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:613-47.

Neural representation and the cortical code.

deCharms RC(1), Zador A.

Author information: 
(1)Keck Center for Integrative Neuroscience, University of California, San
Francisco 94143-0732, USA. decharms@keck.ucsf.edu

The principle function of the central nervous system is to represent and
transform information and thereby mediate appropriate decisions and behaviors.
The cerebral cortex is one of the primary seats of the internal representations
maintained and used in perception, memory, decision making, motor control, and
subjective experience, but the basic coding scheme by which this information is
carried and transformed by neurons is not yet fully understood. This article
defines and reviews how information is represented in the firing rates and
temporal patterns of populations of cortical neurons, with a particular emphasis 
on how this information mediates behavior and experience.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.613 
PMID: 10845077  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:579-612.

The relationship between neuronal survival and regeneration.

Goldberg JL(1), Barres BA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Stanford University School of Medicine, California
94305-5125, USA. jlgoldbe@leland.stanford.edu

The ability of peripheral nervous system (PNS) but not central nervous system
(CNS) neurons to regenerate their axons is a striking peculiarity of higher
vertebrates. Much research has focused on the inhibitory signals produced by CNS 
glia that thwart regenerating axons. Less attention has been paid to the
injury-induced loss of trophic stimuli needed to promote the survival and
regeneration of axotomized neurons. Could differences in the mechanisms that
control CNS and PNS neuronal survival and growth also contribute to the disparity
in regenerative capacity? Here we review recent studies concerning the nature of 
the signals necessary to promote neuronal survival and growth, with an emphasis
on their significance to regeneration after CNS injury.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.579 
PMID: 10845076  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:557-78.

Consciousness.

Searle JR(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Philosophy, University of California, Berkeley 94720-2390, USA. 
searle@cogsci.berkeley.edu

Until recently, most neuroscientists did not regard consciousness as a suitable
topic for scientific investigation. This reluctance was based on certain
philosophical mistakes, primarily the mistake of supposing that the subjectivity 
of consciousness made it beyond the reach of an objective science. Once we see
that consciousness is a biological phenomenon like any other, then it can be
investigated neurobiologically. Consciousness is entirely caused by
neurobiological processes and is realized in brain structures. The essential
trait of consciousness that we need to explain is unified qualitative
subjectivity. Consciousness thus differs from other biological phenomena in that 
it has a subjective or first-person ontology, but this subjective ontology does
not prevent us from having an epistemically objective science of consciousness.
We need to overcome the philosophical tradition that treats the mental and the
physical as two distinct metaphysical realms. Two common approaches to
consciousness are those that adopt the building block model, according to which
any conscious field is made of its various parts, and the unified field model,
according to which we should try to explain the unified character of subjective
states of consciousness. These two approaches are discussed and reasons are given
for preferring the unified field theory to the building block model. Some
relevant research on consciousness involves the subjects of blindsight, the
split-brain experiments, binocular rivalry, and gestalt switching.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.557 
PMID: 10845075  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:531-56.

Control of cell divisions in the nervous system: symmetry and asymmetry.

Lu B(1), Jan L, Jan YN.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Physiology, University of
California, San Francisco 94143-0725, USA. bingwei@itsa.ucsf.edu

The diverse cell types in the nervous system are derived from neural progenitor
cells. Neural progenitors can undergo symmetric divisions to expand cell
population or asymmetric divisions to generate diverse cell types. Furthermore,
neural progenitors must exit the cell cycle in a developmentally regulated manner
to allow for terminal differentiation. The patterns of neural progenitor
divisions have been characterized in vertebrates and invertebrates. During the
course of nervous system development, extrinsic and intrinsic cues dictate the
division patterns of neural progenitors by influencing their cell cycle behavior 
and cellular polarity. The identification in Drosophila of asymmetrically
distributed fate determinants, adapter molecules, and polarity organizing
molecules that participate in asymmetric neural progenitor divisions should
provide points of entry for studying similar asymmetric divisions in vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.531 
PMID: 10845074  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:501-29.

Modular organization of frequency integration in primary auditory cortex.

Schreiner CE(1), Read HL, Sutter ML.

Author information: 
(1)Coleman Memorial Laboratory, W.M. Keck Center for Integrative Neuroscience,
University of California, San Francisco 94143-0732, USA. chris@phy.ucsf.edu

Two fundamental aspects of frequency analysis shape the functional organization
of primary auditory cortex. For one, the decomposition of complex sounds into
different frequency components is reflected in the tonotopic organization of
auditory cortical fields. Second, recent findings suggest that this decomposition
is carried out in parallel for a wide range of frequency resolutions by neurons
with frequency receptive fields of different sizes (bandwidths). A systematic
representation of the range of frequency resolution and, equivalently, spectral
integration shapes the functional organization of the iso-frequency domain.
Distinct subregions, or "modules," along the iso-frequency domain can be
demonstrated with various measures of spectral integration, including pure-tone
tuning curves, noise masking, and electrical cochlear stimulation. This
modularity in the representation of spectral integration is expressed by
intrinsic cortical connections. This organization has implications for our
understanding of psychophysical spectral integration measures such as the
critical band and general cortical coding strategies.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.501 
PMID: 10845073  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:473-500.

Neuronal coding of prediction errors.

Schultz W(1), Dickinson A.

Author information: 
(1)Institute of Physiology, University of Fribourg, Switzerland.
Wolfram.Schultz@unifr.ch

Associative learning enables animals to anticipate the occurrence of important
outcomes. Learning occurs when the actual outcome differs from the predicted
outcome, resulting in a prediction error. Neurons in several brain structures
appear to code prediction errors in relation to rewards, punishments, external
stimuli, and behavioral reactions. In one form, dopamine neurons, norepinephrine 
neurons, and nucleus basalis neurons broadcast prediction errors as global
reinforcement or teaching signals to large postsynaptic structures. In other
cases, error signals are coded by selected neurons in the cerebellum, superior
colliculus, frontal eye fields, parietal cortex, striatum, and visual system,
where they influence specific subgroups of neurons. Prediction errors can be used
in postsynaptic structures for the immediate selection of behavior or for
synaptic changes underlying behavioral learning. The coding of prediction errors 
may represent a basic mode of brain function that may also contribute to the
processing of sensory information and the short-term control of behavior.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.473 
PMID: 10845072  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:441-71.

Neural mechanisms of orientation selectivity in the visual cortex.

Ferster D(1), Miller KD.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology and Physiology, Northwestern University, Evanston, 
Illinois 60208, USA. ferster@nwu.edu

The origin of orientation selectivity in the responses of simple cells in cat
visual cortex serves as a model problem for understanding cortical circuitry and 
computation. The feed-forward model posits that this selectivity arises simply
from the arrangement of thalamic inputs to a simple cell. Much evidence,
including a number of recent intracellular studies, supports a primary role of
the thalamic inputs in determining simple cell response properties, including
orientation tuning. This mechanism alone, however, cannot explain the invariance 
of orientation tuning to changes in stimulus contrast. Simple cells receive
push-pull inhibition: ON inhibition in OFF subregions and vice versa. Addition of
such inhibition to the feed-forward model can account for this contrast
invariance, provided the inhibition is sufficiently strong. The predictions of
"normalization" and "feedback" models are reviewed and compared with the
predictions of this modified feed-forward model and with experimental results.
The modified feed-forward and the feedback models ascribe fundamentally different
functions to cortical processing.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.441 
PMID: 10845071  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:417-39.

Guanylyl cyclases as a family of putative odorant receptors.

Gibson AD(1), Garbers DL.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center, Dallas 75235, USA. angeliag@baylordallas.edu

Mammals can discriminate among a large number (> 10,000) of unique odorants. The 
most highly supported explanation for this ability is that olfactory neurons
express a large number of seven transmembrane receptors that are not spatially
organized at the level of the olfactory epithelium, but whose axonal projections 
form a distinct pattern within the olfactory bulb. The odor-induced signaling
pathway in olfactory neurons includes a Gs-like protein (G(olf)) that activates a
specific adenylyl cyclase (type III) isoform, resulting in elevations of cyclic
AMP and subsequent activation of a cyclic nucleotide-gated channel. The channel
also can be regulated by cyclic GMP. Recently, an olfactory neuron-specific
guanylyl cyclase was discovered in rodents, and subsequently a large family of
sensory neuronal guanylyl cyclases was identified in nematodes. These guanylyl
cyclases are concentrated in the plasma membrane of the dendritic cilia and
contain extracellular domains that retain many of the primary sequence
characteristics of guanylyl cyclases known to be receptors for various peptides. 
Thus, the guanylyl cyclases appear to represent a second family of
odorant/pheromone receptors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.417 
PMID: 10845070  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:393-415.

Plasticity and primary motor cortex.

Sanes JN(1), Donoghue JP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 02912, 
USA. Jerome_Sanes@Brown.edu

One fundamental function of primary motor cortex (MI) is to control voluntary
movements. Recent evidence suggests that this role emerges from distributed
networks rather than discrete representations and that in adult mammals these
networks are capable of modification. Neuronal recordings and activation patterns
revealed with neuroimaging methods have shown considerable plasticity of MI
representations and cell properties following pathological or traumatic changes
and in relation to everyday experience, including motor-skill learning and
cognitive motor actions. The intrinsic horizontal neuronal connections in MI are 
a strong candidate substrate for map reorganization: They interconnect large
regions of MI, they show activity-dependent plasticity, and they modify in
association with skill learning. These findings suggest that MI cortex is not
simply a static motor control structure. It also contains a dynamic substrate
that participates in motor learning and possibly in cognitive events as well.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.393 
PMID: 10845069  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:343-91.

The emergence of modern neuroscience: some implications for neurology and
psychiatry.

Cowan WM(1), Harter DH, Kandel ER.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland 20815, USA.

One of the most significant developments in biology in the past half century was 
the emergence, in the late 1950s and early 1960s, of neuroscience as a distinct
discipline. We review here factors that led to the convergence into a common
discipline of the traditional fields of neurophysiology, neuroanatomy,
neurochemistry, and behavior, and we emphasize the seminal roles played by David 
McKenzie Rioch, Francis O Schmitt, and especially Stephen W Kuffler in creating
neuroscience as we now know it. The application of the techniques of molecular
and cellular biology to the study of the nervous system has greatly accelerated
our understanding of the mechanisms involved in neuronal signaling, neural
development, and the function of the major sensory and motor systems of the
brain. The elucidation of the underlying causes of most neurological and
psychiatric disorders has proved to be more difficult; but striking progress is
now being made in determining the genetic basis of such disorders as Alzheimer's 
disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and a number of ion 
channel and mitochondrial disorders, and a significant start has been made in
identifying genetic factors in the etiology of such disorders as manic depressive
illness and schizophrenia. These developments presage the emergence in the coming
decades of a new nosology, certainly in neurology and perhaps also in psychiatry,
based not on symptomatology but on the dysfunction of specific genes, molecules, 
neuronal organelles and particular neural systems.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.343 
PMID: 10845068  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:315-41.

Mechanisms of visual attention in the human cortex.

Kastner S(1), Ungerleider LG.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Brain and Cognition, National Institute of Mental Health,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA.
sabine@ln.nimh.nih.gov

A typical scene contains many different objects that, because of the limited
processing capacity of the visual system, compete for neural representation. The 
competition among multiple objects in visual cortex can be biased by both
bottom-up sensory-driven mechanisms and top-down influences, such as selective
attention. Functional brain imaging studies reveal that, both in the absence and 
in the presence of visual stimulation, biasing signals due to selective attention
can modulate neural activity in visual cortex in several ways. Although the
competition among stimuli for representation is ultimately resolved within visual
cortex, the source of top-down biasing signals derives from a network of areas in
frontal and parietal cortex.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.315 
PMID: 10845067  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:285-314.

Adaptation in hair cells.

Eatock RA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Bobby R. Alford Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Communicative Sciences, 
Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. eatock@bcm.tmc.edu

Hair cells adapt to sustained deflections of the hair bundle via Ca(2+)-dependent
negative feedback on the open probability of the mechanosensitive transduction
channels. A model posits that adaptation relieves the input to the transduction
channels--force applied by elastic tip links between stereocilia--by
repositioning the insertions of the links in the stereocilium. The tip link
insertion and transduction channel are dragged by myosins moving on the
stereocilium's actin core. This model accounts for many aspects of adaptation in 
hair cells of the frog saccule, where adaptation time constants are tens of
milliseconds. Adaptation in hair cells of the turtle cochlea is much faster,
possibly reflecting a more direct mechanism such as Ca2+ binding to the
transduction channel. Adaptation mechanisms attenuate the transduction current at
low frequencies and may be tuned to different corner frequencies according to the
stimulus demands of the inner ear organ. Other sites of adaptation in the inner
ear include accessory structures, voltage-dependent properties of hair cells, and
afferent transmitter release. A remaining challenge is to understand how these
processes work together to shape the output of the inner ear to natural stimuli.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.285 
PMID: 10845066  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:249-84.

Confronting complexity: strategies for understanding the microcircuitry of the
retina.

Masland RH(1), Raviola E.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston 02114,
USA. masland@helix.mgh.harvard.edu

The mammalian retina contains upward of 50 distinct functional elements, each
carrying out a specific task. Such diversity is not rare in the central nervous
system, but the retina is privileged because its physical location, the
distinctive morphology of its neurons, the regularity of its architecture, and
the accessibility of its inputs and outputs permit a unique variety of
experiments. Recent strategies for confronting the retina's complexity attempt to
marry genetic approaches to new kinds of anatomical and electrophysiological
techniques.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.249 
PMID: 10845065  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:217-47.

Glutamine repeats and neurodegeneration.

Zoghbi HY(1), Orr HT.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas
77030, USA. hzoghbi@bcm.tmc.edu

A growing number of neurodegenerative diseases have been found to result from the
expansion of an unstable trinucleotide repeat. Over the past 6 years, researchers
have focused on identifying the mechanism by which the expanded polyglutamine
tract renders a protein toxic to a subset of vulnerable neurons. In this review, 
we summarize the clinicopathologic features of these disorders (spinobulbar
muscular atrophy, Huntington disease, and the spinocerebellar ataxias, including 
dentatorubropallidoluysian atrophy), describe the genes involved and what is
known about their products, and discuss the model systems that have lent insight 
into pathogenesis. The review concludes with a model for pathogenesis that
illuminates the unifying features of these polyglutamine disorders. This model
may prove relevant to other neurodegenerative disorders as well.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.217 
PMID: 10845064  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:185-215.

Dopaminergic modulation of neuronal excitability in the striatum and nucleus
accumbens.

Nicola SM(1), Surmeier J, Malenka RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California at San Francisco 94143, USA.
nicola@phy.ucsf.edu

The striatum and its ventral extension, the nucleus accumbens, are involved in
behaviors as diverse as motor planning, drug seeking, and learning. Invariably,
these striatally mediated behaviors depend on intact dopaminergic innervation.
However, the mechanisms by which dopamine modulates neuronal function in the
striatum and nucleus accumbens have been difficult to elucidate. Recent
electrophysiological studies have revealed that dopamine alters both
voltage-dependent conductances and synaptic transmission, resulting in
state-dependent modulation of target cells. These studies make clear predictions 
about how dopamine, particularly via D1 receptor activation, should alter the
responsiveness of striatal neurons to extrinsic excitatory synaptic activity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.185 
PMID: 10845063  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:155-84.

Emotion circuits in the brain.

LeDoux JE(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neural Science, New York University, New York 10003, USA.
ledoux@cns.nyu.edu

The field of neuroscience has, after a long period of looking the other way,
again embraced emotion as an important research area. Much of the progress has
come from studies of fear, and especially fear conditioning. This work has
pinpointed the amygdala as an important component of the system involved in the
acquisition, storage, and expression of fear memory and has elucidated in detail 
how stimuli enter, travel through, and exit the amygdala. Some progress has also 
been made in understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms that underlie
fear conditioning, and recent studies have also shown that the findings from
experimental animals apply to the human brain. It is important to remember why
this work on emotion succeeded where past efforts failed. It focused on a
psychologically well-defined aspect of emotion, avoided vague and poorly defined 
concepts such as "affect," "hedonic tone," or "emotional feelings," and used a
simple and straightforward experimental approach. With so much research being
done in this area today, it is important that the mistakes of the past not be
made again. It is also time to expand from this foundation into broader aspects
of mind and behavior.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.155 
PMID: 10845062  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:127-53.

The koniocellular pathway in primate vision.

Hendry SH(1), Reid RC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Zanvyl Krieger Mind/Brain Institute, Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, Maryland 21208, USA. hendry@jhu.edu

A neurochemically distinct population of koniocellular (K) neurons makes up a
third functional channel in primate lateral geniculate nucleus. As part of a
general pattern, K neurons form robust layers through the full representation of 
the visual hemifield. Similar in physiology and connectivity to W cells in cat
lateral geniculate nucleus, K cells form three pairs of layers in macaques. The
middle pair relays input from short-wavelength cones to the cytochrome-oxidase
blobs of primay visual cortex (V1), the dorsal-most pair relays low-acuity visual
information to layer I of V1, and the ventral-most pair appears closely tied to
the function of the superior colliculus. Throughout each K layer are neurons that
innervate extrastriate cortex and that are likely to sustain some visual
behaviors in the absence of V1. These data show that several pathways exist from 
retina to V1 that are likely to process different aspects of the visual scene
along lines that may remain parallel well into V1.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.127 
PMID: 10845061  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:89-125.

Gain of function mutants: ion channels and G protein-coupled receptors.

Lester HA(1), Karschin A.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91125, USA. 
Lester@caltech.edu

Many ion channels and receptors display striking phenotypes for gain-of-function 
mutations but milder phenotypes for null mutations. Gain of molecular function
can have several mechanistic bases: selectivity changes, gating changes including
constitutive activation and slowed inactivation, elimination of a subunit that
enhances inactivation, decreased drug sensitivity, changes in regulation or
trafficking of the channel, or induction of apoptosis. Decreased firing frequency
can occur via increased function of K+ or Cl- channels. Channel mutants also
cause gain-of-function syndromes at the cellular and circuit level; of these
syndromes, the cardiac long-QT syndromes are explained in a more straightforward 
way than are the epilepsies. G protein-coupled receptors are also affected by
activating mutations.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.89 
PMID: 10845060  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:73-87.

Apoptosis in neural development and disease.

Nijhawan D(1), Honarpour N, Wang X.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Texas Southwestern Medical
Center at Dallas 75235, USA. nijhawan.deepak@tumora.swmed.edu

Cell death via apoptosis is a prominent feature in mammalian neural development. 
Recent studies into the basic mechanism of apoptosis have revealed biochemical
pathways that control and execute apoptosis in mammalian cells. Protein factors
in these pathways play important roles during development in regulating the
balance between neuronal life and death. Additionally, mounting evidence
indicates such pathways may also be activated during several neurodegenerative
diseases, resulting in improper loss of neurons.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.73 
PMID: 10845059  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:39-71.

Microtubule-based transport systems in neurons: the roles of kinesins and
dyneins.

Goldstein LS(1), Yang Z.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Pharmacology, University of
California at San Diego, La Jolla 92093-0683, USA. lgoldstein@ucsd.edu

The large size and extreme polarization of neurons is crucial to their ability to
communicate at long distances and to form the complex cellular networks of the
nervous system. The size, shape, and compartmentalization of these specialized
cells must be generated and supported by the cytoskeletal systems of
intracellular transport. One of the major systems is the microtubule-based
transport system along which kinesin and dynein motor proteins generate force and
drive the traffic of many cellular components. This review describes our current 
understanding of the functions of kinesins and dyneins and how these motor
proteins may be harnessed to generate some of the unique properties of neuronal
cells.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.39 
PMID: 10845058  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Annu Rev Neurosci. 2000;23:1-37.

Cortical and subcortical contributions to activity-dependent plasticity in
primate somatosensory cortex.

Jones EG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neuroscience, University of California, Davis 95616, USA.
ejones@ucdavis.edu

After manipulations of the periphery that reduce or enhance input to the
somatosensory cortex, affected parts of the body representation will contract or 
expand, often over many millimeters. Various mechanisms, including divergence of 
preexisting connections, expression of latent synapses, and sprouting of new
synapses, have been proposed to explain such phenomena, which probably underlie
altered sensory experiences associated with limb amputation and peripheral nerve 
injury in humans. Putative cortical mechanisms have received the greatest
emphasis but there is increasing evidence for substantial reorganization in
subcortical structures, including the brainstem and thalamus, that may be of
sufficient extent to account for or play a large part in representational
plasticity in somatosensory cortex. Recent studies show that divergence of
ascending connections is considerable and sufficient to ensure that small
alterations in map topography at brainstem and thalamic levels will be amplified 
in the projection to the cortex. In the long term, slow,
deafferentation-dependent transneuronal atrophy at brainstem, thalamic, and even 
cortical levels are operational in promoting reorganizational changes, and the
extent to which surviving connections can maintain a map is a key to
understanding differences between central and peripheral deafferentation.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.23.1.1 
PMID: 10845057  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:567-631.

Birdsong and human speech: common themes and mechanisms.

Doupe AJ(1), Kuhl PK.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California at San Francisco 94143,
USA. ajd@phy.ucsf.edu

Human speech and birdsong have numerous parallels. Both humans and songbirds
learn their complex vocalizations early in life, exhibiting a strong dependence
on hearing the adults they will imitate, as well as themselves as they practice, 
and a waning of this dependence as they mature. Innate predispositions for
perceiving and learning the correct sounds exist in both groups, although more
evidence of innate descriptions of species-specific signals exists in songbirds, 
where numerous species of vocal learners have been compared. Humans also share
with songbirds an early phase of learning that is primarily perceptual, which
then serves to guide later vocal production. Both humans and songbirds have
evolved a complex hierarchy of specialized forebrain areas in which motor and
auditory centers interact closely, and which control the lower vocal motor areas 
also found in nonlearners. In both these vocal learners, however, how auditory
feedback of self is processed in these brain areas is surprisingly unclear.
Finally, humans and songbirds have similar critical periods for vocal learning,
with a much greater ability to learn early in life. In both groups, the capacity 
for late vocal learning may be decreased by the act of learning itself, as well
as by biological factors such as the hormones of puberty. Although some features 
of birdsong and speech are clearly not analogous, such as the capacity of
language for meaning, abstraction, and flexible associations, there are striking 
similarities in how sensory experience is internalized and used to shape vocal
outputs, and how learning is enhanced during a critical period of development.
Similar neural mechanisms may therefore be involved.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.567 
PMID: 10202549  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:541-66.

Cellular and molecular determinants of sympathetic neuron development.

Francis NJ(1), Landis SC.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Case Western Reserve University School of
Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA. nxf@pop.cwru.edu

The development of the sympathetic nervous system can be divided into three
overlapping stages. First, the precursors of sympathetic neurons arise from
undifferentiated neural crest cells that migrate ventrally, aggregate adjacent to
the dorsal aorta, and ultimately differentiate into catecholaminergic neurons.
Second, cell number is refined during a period of cell death when neurotrophic
factors determine the number of neuronal precursors and neurons that survive. The
final stage of sympathetic development is the establishment and maturation of
synaptic connections, which for sympathetic neurons can include alterations in
neurotransmitter phenotype. Considerable progress has been made recently in
elucidating the cellular and molecular mechanisms that direct each of these
developmental decisions. We review the current understanding of each of these,
focusing primarily on events in the peripheral nervous system of rodents.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.541 
PMID: 10202548  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:511-39.

Central nervous system neuronal migration.

Hatten ME(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10021-6399, USA.
hatten@rockvax.rockefeller.edu

Widespread cell migrations are the hallmark of vertebrate brain development. In
the early embryo, morphogenetic movements of precursor cells establish the
rhombomeres of the hindbrain, the external germinal layer of the cerebellum, and 
the regional boundaries of the forebrain. In midgestation, after primary
neurogenesis in compact ventricular zones has commenced, individual postmitotic
cells undergo directed migrations along the glial fiber system. Radial migrations
establish the neuronal layers. Three molecules have been shown to function in
glial guided migration--astrotactin, glial growth factor, and erbB. In the
postnatal period, a wave of secondary neurogenesis produces huge numbers of
interneurons destined for the cerebellar cortex, the hippocampal formation, and
the olfactory bulb. Molecular analysis of the genes that mark stages of secondary
neurogenesis show similar expression patterns of a number of genes. Thus these
three regions may have genetic pathways in common. Finally, we consider emerging 
studies on neurological mutant mice, such as reeler, and human brain
malformations. Positional cloning and identification of mutated genes has led to 
new insights on laminar patterning in brain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.511 
PMID: 10202547  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:487-509.

Molecular biology of odorant receptors in vertebrates.

Mombaerts P(1).

Author information: 
(1)Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10021, USA.
pm@rockvax.rockefeller.edu

The initial step in olfactory discrimination involves the interaction of odorous 
ligands with specific receptors on the surface of olfactory sensory neurons. The 
foundation for a molecular understanding of odor recognition in vertebrates was
provided by the identification of a family of genes encoding putative odorant
receptors, by Buck & Axel in 1991. Odorant receptor (OR) genes from the largest
gene family in the vertebrate genome. This review summarizes progress over the
past seven years. Major new insights are: Olfaction is accomplished in
vertebrates by a very large number of receptors; olfactory sensory neurons
express a small subset of the OR repertoire; in rat and mouse, axons of neurons
expressing the same OR converge onto defined glomeruli in the olfactory bulb.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.487 
PMID: 10202546  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:443-85.

Presynaptic ionotropic receptors and the control of transmitter release.

MacDermott AB(1), Role LW, Siegelbaum SA.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Columbia
University, New York, NY 10032, USA.

The quantity of neurotransmitter released into the synaptic cleft, the
reliability with which it is released, and the response of the postsynaptic cell 
to that transmitter all contribute to the strength of a synaptic connection. The 
presynaptic nerve terminal is a major regulatory site for activity-dependent
changes in synaptic function. Ionotropic receptors for the inhibitory amino acid 
GABA, expressed on the presynaptic terminals of crustacean motor axons and
vertebrate sensory neurons, were the first well-defined mechanism for the
heterosynaptic transmitter-mediated regulation of transmitter release. Recently, 
presynaptic ionotropic receptors for a large range of transmitters have been
found to be widespread throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems. In 
this review, we first consider some general theoretical issues regarding whether 
and how presynaptic ionotropic receptors are important regulators of presynaptic 
function. We consider the criteria that should be met to identify a presynaptic
ionotropic receptor and its regulatory function and review several examples of
presynaptic receptors that meet at least some of those criteria. We summarize the
classic studies of presynaptic inhibition mediated by GABA-gated Cl channels and 
then focus on presynaptic nicotinic ACh receptors and presynaptic glutamate
receptors. Finally, we briefly discuss evidence for other types of presynaptic
ionotropic receptors.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.443 
PMID: 10202545  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:389-442.

Development of the vertebrate neuromuscular junction.

Sanes JR(1), Lichtman JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. sanesj@thalamus.wustl.edu

We describe the formation, maturation, elimination, maintenance, and regeneration
of vertebrate neuromuscular junctions (NMJs), the best studied of all synapses.
The NMJ forms in a series of steps that involve the exchange of signals among its
three cellular components--nerve terminal, muscle fiber, and Schwann cell.
Although essentially any motor axon can form NMJs with any muscle fiber, an
additional set of cues biases synapse formation in favor of appropriate partners.
The NMJ is functional at birth but undergoes numerous alterations postnatally.
One step in maturation is the elimination of excess inputs, a competitive process
in which the muscle is an intermediary. Once elimination is complete, the NMJ is 
maintained stably in a dynamic equilibrium that can be perturbed to initiate
remodeling. NMJs regenerate following damage to nerve or muscle, but this process
differs in fundamental ways from embryonic synaptogenesis. Finally, we consider
the extent to which the NMJ is a suitable model for development of neuron-neuron 
synapses.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.389 
PMID: 10202544  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:351-88.

Growth cone guidance: first steps towards a deeper understanding.

Mueller BK(1).

Author information: 
(1)Max-Planck-Institute for Developmental Biology I, Tuebingen, Germany.
bemue@mpib-tuebingen.mpg.de

Growth cones, the hand-like structures at the tip of growing neurites, possess
remarkable abilities to detect directional cues. On their way to their targets
they traverse a dense jungle of many different cells, expressing a variety of
different molecular guidance cues. Proper reading and integration of these cues
is essential for precise wiring of different parts of the peripheral and central 
nervous systems. Guidance cues have been classified according to the response
they elicit as either attractive or repulsive. Recent work, however, suggests
that this might not represent an absolute distinction and that the internal state
of the growth cone can dictate whether it detects a cue as repulsive or
attractive. This article reviews some new experimental approaches to
understanding growth cone signal transduction mechanisms induced by extracellular
guidance cues.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.351 
PMID: 10202543  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:319-49.

Space and attention in parietal cortex.

Colby CL(1), Goldberg ME.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15260, USA.

The space around us is represented not once but many times in parietal cortex.
These multiple representations encode locations and objects of interest in
several egocentric reference frames. Stimulus representations are transformed
from the coordinates of receptor surfaces, such as the retina or the cochlea,
into the coordinates of effectors, such as the eye, head, or hand. The
transformation is accomplished by dynamic updating of spatial representations in 
conjunction with voluntary movements. This direct sensory-to-motor coordinate
transformation obviates the need for a single representation of space in
environmental coordinates. In addition to representing object locations in
motoric coordinates, parietal neurons exhibit strong modulation by attention.
Both top-down and bottom-up mechanisms of attention contribute to the enhancement
of visual responses. The saliance of a stimulus is the primary factor in
determining the neural response to it. Although parietal neurons represent
objects in motor coordinates, visual responses are independent of the intention
to perform specific motor acts.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.319 
PMID: 10202542  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:295-318.

Neurotrophins and synaptic plasticity.

McAllister AK(1), Katz LC, Lo DC.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Salk Institute, La Jolla, California 92037,
USA. kmcallister@aim.salk.edu

Despite considerable evidence that neuronal activity influences the organization 
and function of circuits in the developing and adult brain, the molecular signals
that translate activity into structural and functional changes in connections
remain largely obscure. This review discusses the evidence implicating
neurotrophins as molecular mediators of synaptic and morphological plasticity.
Neurotrophins are attractive candidates for these roles because they and their
receptors are expressed in areas of the brain that undergo plasticity, activity
can regulate their levels and secretion, and they regulate both synaptic
transmission and neuronal growth. Although numerous experiments show demonstrable
effects of neurotrophins on synaptic plasticity, the rules and mechanisms by
which they exert their effects remain intriguingly elusive.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.295 
PMID: 10202541  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:261-94.

The specification of dorsal cell fates in the vertebrate central nervous system.

Lee KJ(1), Jessell TM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biophysics, Center for Neurobiology and Behavior, Columbia University, New York, 
New York 10032, USA. KL94@columbia.edu

The generation of distinct classes of neurons at defined positions within the
developing vertebrate nervous system depends on inductive signals provided by
local cell groups that act as organizing centers. Genetic and embryological
studies have begun to elucidate the processes that control the pattern and
identity of neuronal cell types. Here we discuss the cellular interactions and
molecular mechanisms that direct neuronal cell fates in the dorsal half of the
vertebrate central nervous system. The specification of dorsal neuronal cell
fates appears to depend on a cascade of inductive signals initiated by cells of
the epidermal ectoderm that flank the neural plate and propagated by roof plate
cells within the neural tube. Members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF
beta) family of secreted proteins have a prominent role in mediating these
dorsalizing signals. Additional signals involving members of the Wnt and
fibroblast growth factor (FGF) families may also contribute to the proliferation 
and differentiation of dorsal neuronal cell types.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.261 
PMID: 10202540  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:241-59.

Neural selection and control of visually guided eye movements.

Schall JD(1), Thompson KG.

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt Vision Research Center, Department of Psychology, Vanderbilt
University, Nashville, Tennessee 37240, USA. jeffrey.d.schall@vanderbilt.edu

We review neural correlates of perceptual and motor decisions, examining whether 
the time they occupy explains the duration and variability of behavioral reaction
times. The location of a salient target is identified through a spatiotemporal
evolution of visually evoked activation throughout the visual system. Selection
of the target leads to stochastic growth of movement-related activity toward a
fixed threshold to generate the gaze shift. For a given image, the neural
concomitants of perceptual processing occupy a relatively constant interval so
that stochastic variability in response generation introduces additional
variability in reaction times.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.241 
PMID: 10202539  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:219-40.

Microglia as mediators of inflammatory and degenerative diseases.

González-Scarano F(1), Baltuch G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania Medical Center,
Philadelphia 19104-6146, USA. Scarano@mail.med.upenn.edu

Microglia are the principal immune cells in the central nervous system (CNS) and 
have a critical role in host defense against invading microorganisms and
neoplastic cells. However, as with immune cells in other organs, microglia may
play a dual role, amplifying the effects of inflammation and mediating cellular
degeneration as well as protecting the CNS. In entities like human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection of the nervous system, microglia are also 
critical to viral persistence. In this review we discuss the role of microglia in
three diseases in which their activity is at least partially deleterious: HIV,
multiple sclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.219 
PMID: 10202538  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:197-217.

Monoamine oxidase: from genes to behavior.

Shih JC(1), Chen K, Ridd MJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Pharmacology and Toxicology, School of Pharmacy,
University of Southern California, Los Angeles 90033, USA. jcshih@hsc.usc.edu

Cloning of MAO (monoamine oxidase) A and B has demonstrated unequivocally that
these enzymes are made up of different polypeptides, and our understanding of MAO
structure, regulation, and function has been significantly advanced by studies
using their cDNA. MAO A and B genes are located on the X-chromosome (Xp11.23) and
comprise 15 exons with identical intron-exon organization, which suggests that
they are derived from the same ancestral gene. MAO A and B knock-out mice exhibit
distinct differences in neurotransmitter metabolism and behavior. MAO A knock-out
mice have elevated brain levels of serotonin, norephinephrine, and dopamine and
manifest aggressive behavior similar to human males with a deletion of MAO A. In 
contrast, MAO B knock-out mice do not exhibit aggression and only levels of
phenylethylamine are increased. Mice lacking MAO B are resistant to the
Parkinsongenic neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetra-hydropyridine. Both
MAO A and B knock-out mice show increased reactivity to stress. These knock-out
mice are valuable models for investigating the role of monoamines in psychoses
and neurodegenerative and stress-related disorders.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.197 
PMCID: PMC2844879
PMID: 10202537  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:175-95.

Autoimmunity and neurological disease: antibody modulation of synaptic
transmission.

Whitney KD(1), McNamara JO.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina
27710, USA.

Over the past three decades, compelling evidence has emerged that the immune
system can attack the nervous system with devastating consequences for human
health. Either cell-mediated or humoral (antibody-mediated) autoimmune mechanisms
may predominate in effecting a given disease, and either glia or neurons may fall
under immune attack. A subset of these diseases has been particularly useful for 
understanding fundamental neuroscience as well as mechanisms of human disease.
This subset involves humoral autoimmune attack on cell surface molecules
subserving transmembrane signaling of excitable cells; special emphasis is placed
here on proteins involved in synaptic transmission. We begin by reviewing the
prototypic humoral autoimmune disease of synaptic transmission, myasthenia
gravis. This provides a context for insights obtained from the study of diseases 
targeting molecules that regulate synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular
junction and in the central nervous system. We also explore a disease where
autoimmunity produces agonist antibodies acting at two distinct G-protein-coupled
receptors. We conclude with an exploration of the vital issue of access of
antibodies to targets within the central nervous system and the implications that
such access may have in the pathogenesis of poorly understood idiopathic central 
nervous system diseases.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.175 
PMID: 10202536  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:145-73.

Computational neuroimaging of human visual cortex.

Wandell BA(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Program, Stanford University, California 94305, USA.
wandell@stanford.edu

Functional magnetic resonance imaging is a new neuroimaging method for probing
the intact, alert, human brain. With this tool, brain activity that has been
hidden can now be measured. Recent advances in measuring and understanding human 
neural responses underlying motion, color, and pattern perception are reviewed.
In individual human brain, we can now identify the positions of several
retinotopically organized visual areas; measure retinotopic organization within
these areas; identify the location of a motion-sensitive region in individual
brains; measure responses associated with contrast, color, and motion; and
measure effects of attentional modulation on visually evoked responses. By
framing experiments and analyses as questions about visual computation, these
neuroimaging measurements can be coupled closely with those from other basic
vision-science methods.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.145 
PMID: 10202535  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:123-44.

Etiology and pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.

Olanow CW(1), Tatton WG.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, New York 10029,
USA.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder that
affects approximately 1 million persons in the United States. It is characterized
by resting tremor, rigidity, bradykinesia or slowness, gait disturbance, and
postural instability. Pathological features include degeneration of dopaminergic 
neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta coupled with intracytoplasmic
inclusions known as Lewy bodies. Neurodegeneration and Lewy bodies can also be
found in the locus ceruleus, nucleus basalis, hypothalamus, cerebral cortex,
cranial nerve motor nuclei, and central and peripheral components of the
autonomic nervous system. Current treatment consists of a dopamine replacement
strategy using primarily the dopamine precursor levodopa. While levodopa provides
benefit to virtually all PD patients, after 5-10 years of treatment the majority 
of patients develop adverse events in the form of dyskinesia (involuntary
movements) and fluctuations in motor response. Further, disease progression is
associated with the development of dementia, autonomic dysfunction, and postural 
instability, which do not respond to levodopa therapy. Accordingly, research
efforts have been directed toward understanding the etiology and pathogenesis of 
PD in the hope of developing a more effective therapy that will slow or halt the 
natural progression of PD. This paper reviews recent advances.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.123 
PMID: 10202534  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:105-22.

Stress and hippocampal plasticity.

McEwen BS(1).

Author information: 
(1)Harold and Margaret Milliken Hatch Laboratory of Neuroendocrinology,
Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10021, USA.
mcewen@rockvax.rockefeller.edu

The hippocampus is a target of stress hormones, and it is an especially plastic
and vulnerable region of the brain. It also responds to gonadal, thyroid, and
adrenal hormones, which modulate changes in synapse formation and dendritic
structure and regulate dentate gyrus volume during development and in adult life.
Two forms of structural plasticity are affected by stress: Repeated stress causes
atrophy of dendrites in the CA3 region, and both acute and chronic stress
suppresses neurogenesis of dentate gyrus granule neurons. Besides
glucocorticoids, excitatory amino acids and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors
are involved in these two forms of plasticity as well as in neuronal death that
is caused in pyramidal neurons by seizures and by ischemia. The two forms of
hippocampal structural plasticity are relevant to the human hippocampus, which
undergoes a selective atrophy in a number of disorders, accompanied by deficits
in declarative episodic, spatial, and contextual memory performance. It is
important, from a therapeutic standpoint, to distinguish between a permanent loss
of cells and a reversible atrophy.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.105 
PMID: 10202533  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:49-103.

Making brain connections: neuroanatomy and the work of TPS Powell, 1923-1996.

Jones EG(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, University of California, Irvine
92697-1280, USA. ejones@ucdavis.edu

Dr. Thomas PS Powell was one of the founders of modern neuroanatomy. His career
spanned an era that saw techniques for analyzing connections in the central
nervous system dramatically increase in number and resolving power. In tracing
the history of his research, one can see how the introduction of each new
technique provided an incremental step in analytical capacity although eventually
revealing its own limitations. Also evident is the extent to which prejudices
born in the days of applying earlier techniques could continue to influence the
interpretation of results obtained with new ones. Powell's contributions to
neuroscience were extremely wide-ranging, encompassing investigations of the
circuitry of the basal ganglia, corticofugal connections, topographic maps in
sensory systems, central olfactory pathways, corticocortical and commissural
connections, and pathways for sensory convergence in the cerebral cortex. From
these investigations, made with tract tracing techniques, much existing knowledge
of forebrain organization is derived. He was also one of the earliest
investigators to use electron microscopy in the investigation of the central
nervous system, and his electron microscopic studies on the olfactory bulb,
thalamus, cerebral cortex, and basal ganglia laid, to a large extent, the
foundations for all modern research on the synaptic circuitry of these
structures. He was given to synthesizing data across systems in order to arrive
at common principles of brain organization. A number of these syntheses have been
sources of great interest and, occasionally, controversy.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.49 
PMID: 10202532  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:29-47.

Retinal waves and visual system development.

Wong RO(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA. wongr@thalamus.wustl.edu

Many pathways in the developing visual system are restructured and become highly 
organized even before vision occurs. Yet the developmental processes underlying
the remodeling of visual connectivity are crucially dependent on retinal
activity. Surprisingly, the immature and light-insensitive retina spontaneously
generates a pattern of rhythmic bursting activity during the period when the
connectivity patterns of retinal ganglion cells are shaped. Spatially, the
activity is seen to spread across the retina in the form of waves that bring into
synchrony the bursts of neighboring cells. Waves are present in the developing
retina of higher and lower vertebrates, which suggests that this form of activity
may be a common and fundamental mechanism employed in the activity-dependent
refinement of early patterns of visual connections. Unraveling the cues encoded
by the waves promises to provide important insights into how interactions driven 
by specific patterns of activity could lead to the modification of connectivity
during development.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.29 
PMID: 10202531  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:11-28.

The cell biology of the blood-brain barrier.

Rubin LL(1), Staddon JM.

Author information: 
(1)Ontogeny, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138-1118, USA. lrubin@ontogeny.com

The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is formed by brain capillary endothelial cells
(ECs). In the late embryonic and early postnatal period, these cells respond to
inducing factors found in the brain environment by adopting a set of defined
characteristics, including high-electrical-resistance tight junctions. Although
the factors have not been identified definitively, a great deal of information
about brain ECs has been obtained, especially recently. This review concentrates 
on a cell biological analysis of the BBB, with an emphasis on regulation of the
specialized intercellular junctions. The development of these junctions seems to 
depend on two primary processes: the appearance of high levels of the tight
junction protein occludin and intracellular signaling processes that control the 
state of phosphorylation of junctional proteins. Recent studies have revealed
that the BBB can be modulated in an ongoing way to respond to environmental
stimuli.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.11 
PMID: 10202530  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1999;22:1-10.

Monitoring secretory membrane with FM1-43 fluorescence.

Cochilla AJ(1), Angleson JK, Betz WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, University of Colorado Medical School
80262, USA. amanda.cochilla@uchsc.edu

FM1-43 and similar styryl dyes have proven useful as probes for membrane
trafficking because they reversibly stain membranes, are impermeable to
membranes, and are more fluorescent when bound to membranes than when in
solution. Because these dyes stain membranes in an activity-dependent manner,
they are ideal for studies of neurotransmitter release mechanisms such as
synaptic vesicle recycling, exocytosis, and endocytosis. FM dyes have been used
in conjunction with other techniques such as fluorescent calcium indicator dyes
and electrophysiological techniques to elucidate mechanisms of presynaptic
calcium homeostasis and modulation of neurotransmitter release. Presynaptic
membranes have been marked by FM dyes in studies of synaptogenesis and
reinnervation. As a probe for endocytosed membranes, these dyes have been used to
examine vacuole formation in yeast. These versatile membrane dyes are useful in a
variety of applications.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.22.1.1 
PMID: 10202529  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:1-24.

Genetic and environmental influences on human behavioral differences.

McGue M(1), Bouchard TJ Jr.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychology and Institute of Human Genetics, University of
Minnesota, Minneapolis 55455, USA. Mmcgue@tfs.psych.umn.edu

Human behavioral genetic research aimed at characterizing the existence and
nature of genetic and environmental influences on individual differences in
cognitive ability, personality and interests, and psychopathology is reviewed.
Twin and adoption studies indicate that most behavioral characteristics are
heritable. Nonetheless, efforts to identify the genes influencing behavior have
produced a limited number of confirmed linkages or associations. Behavioral
genetic research also documents the importance of environmental factors, but
contrary to the expectations of many behavioral scientists, the relevant
environmental factors appear to be those that are not shared by reared together
relatives. The observation of genotype-environment correlational processes and
the hypothesized existence of genotype-environment interaction effects serve to
distinguish behavioral traits from the medical and physiological phenotypes
studied by human geneticists. Behavioral genetic research supports the
heritability, not the genetic determination, of behavior.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.1 
PMID: 9530489  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:479-505.

Mutant genes in familial Alzheimer's disease and transgenic models.

Price DL(1), Sisodia SS.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21205-2196, USA. ADRC@welchlink.welch.jhu.edu,
ssisodia@welchlink.welch.jhu.edu

The most common cause of dementia occurring in mid- to late-life is Alzheimer's
disease (AD). Some cases of AD, particularly those of early onset, are familial
and inherited as autosomal dominant disorders linked to the presence of mutant
genes that encode the amyloid precursor protein (APP) or the presenilins (PS1 or 
PS2). These mutant gene products cause dysfunction/death of vulnerable
populations of nerve cells important in memory, higher cognitive processes, and
behavior. AD affects 7-10% of individuals > 65 years of age and perhaps 40% of
individuals > 80 years of age. For the late-onset cases, the principal risk
factors are age and apolipoprotein (apoE) allele type, with apoE4 allele being a 
susceptibility factor. In this review, we briefly discuss the clinical syndrome
of AD and the neurobiology/neuropathology of the disease and then focus attention
on mutant genes linked to autosomal dominant familial AD (FAD), the biology of
the proteins encoded by these genes, and the recent exciting progress in
investigations of genetically engineered animal models that express these mutant 
genes and develop some features of AD.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.479 
PMID: 9530504  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:445-77.

Regionalization of the prosencephalic neural plate.

Rubenstein JL(1), Shimamura K, Martinez S, Puelles L.

Author information: 
(1)Nina Ireland Laboratory of Developmental Neurobiology, Department of
Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0984, USA.

Recent embryological studies are beginning to establish that the underlying
organization of the forebrain may be reduced to relatively simple elements that
are common to all vertebrates. We begin this chapter by reviewing studies that
describe the similarities in prospective fate and molecular organization of the
developing neural plate in fish, frogs, chickens, and mice. The chapter next
addresses mechanisms that regulate regional specification in the anterior central
nervous system. There is now evidence that the axial mesendoderm anterior to the 
notochord (the prechordal plate) has a central role in induction of the floor and
basal plate primordia (hypothalamus) of the forebrain. Patterning of the
anterolateral neural plate (telencephalon) may be regulated by FGF8 produced in
the anterior neural ridge. Thus, the synthesis of information from fate mapping
and experimental embryological and genetic studies is illuminating the mechanisms
that generate the different components of the forebrain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.445 
PMID: 9530503  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:407-44.

Gene discovery in Drosophila: new insights for learning and memory.

Dubnau J(1), Tully T.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, New York 11724, USA.

Genetic approaches have been used to investigate increasingly complex biological 
systems. Here we review the current state of genetic analysis of learning and
memory in the fruitfly, Drosophila melanogaster. Emerging findings support two
main themes. First, discovery and manipulation of genes involved with behavioral 
plasticity in genetically accessible systems such as D. melanogaster enables
dissection of the biochemical, cellular, anatomical, and behavioral pathways of
learning and memory. Second, because core cellular mechanisms of simple forms of 
learning are evolutionarily conserved, biological pathways discovered in
invertebrates are likely to be conserved in vertebrate systems as well.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.407 
PMID: 9530502  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


421. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:377-405.

Inducible gene expression in the nervous system of transgenic mice.

Gingrich JR(1), Roder J.

Author information: 
(1)Samuel Lunenfeld Research Institute, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, Canada.

Gene function during mammalian development is often studied by making
irreversible changes to the genome. This approach has a major drawback in that
the function of the gene in question must be deduced from the phenotype of
animals that have been deficient for the product of the disrupted gene throughout
ontogeny. Compensation for the loss of the gene product could yield an apparently
unaltered phenotype. Alternatively, the changes in the regulation of other genes 
could yield a misleading phenotype. If the genetic manipulation results in
embryonic or neonatal lethality, gene function at later stages of development
cannot be analyzed. It would thus be highly advantageous if the expression of a
particular gene could be restricted both temporally and spatially through the use
of an inducible genetic system. This paper describes the various inducible
genetic expression systems developed for use in mammalian cells, with particular 
emphasis on their application in the nervous system of transgenic mice.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.377 
PMID: 9530501  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:347-75.

Zinc and brain injury.

Choi DW(1), Koh JY.

Author information: 
(1)Center for the Study of Nervous System Injury, Washington University School of
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110, USA.

Zinc is an essential catalytic or structural element of many proteins, and a
signaling messenger that is released by neural activity at many central
excitatory synapses. Growing evidence suggests that zinc may also be a key
mediator and modulator of the neuronal death associated with transient global
ischemia and sustained seizures, as well as perhaps other neurological disease
states. Manipulations aimed at reducing extracellular zinc accumulation, or
cellular vulnerability to toxic zinc exposure, may provide a novel therapeutic
approach toward ameliorating pathological neuronal death in these settings.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.347 
PMID: 9530500  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:309-45.

The ephrins and Eph receptors in neural development.

Flanagan JG(1), Vanderhaeghen P.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA. Flanagan@warren.med.harvard.edu

The Eph receptors are the largest known family of receptor tyrosine kinases.
Initially all of them were identified as orphan receptors without known ligands, 
and their specific functions were not well understood. During the past few years,
a corresponding family of ligands has been identified, called the ephrins, and
specific functions have now been identified in neural development. The ephrins
and Eph receptors are implicated as positional labels that may guide the
development of neural topographic maps. They have also been implicated in pathway
selection by axons, the guidance of cell migration, and the establishment of
regional pattern in the nervous system. The ligands are anchored to cell
surfaces, and most of the functions so far identified can be interpreted as
precise guidance of cell or axon movement. This large family of ligands and
receptors may make a major contribution to the accurate spatial patterning of
connections and cell position in the nervous system.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.309 
PMID: 9530499  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:279-308.

Signal transduction in the Caenorhabditis elegans nervous system.

Bargmann CI(1), Kaplan JM.

Author information: 
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Anatomy, University of
California, San Francisco 94143-0452, USA. cori@itsa.ucsf.edu

Caenorhabditis elegans interacts with its environment by sensing chemicals,
touch, and temperature; genetic analysis of each of these responses has led to
the identification of candidate signaling molecules within sensory neurons. A
molecular model for touch sensation has emerged from studies of the
mechanosensory response; the receptors and signal transduction mechanisms in
olfactory neurons are being elucidated; and an unusual neuroendocrine role for a 
TGF-beta-related peptide in chemosensory neurons has been discovered. Presynaptic
and postsynaptic components of neuronal synapses have been identified in
behavioral and pharmacological mutant screens. Mutations have been found in
multiple classes of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor genes, excitatory and
inhibitory glutamate receptor genes, and candidate gap junction genes, allowing
their function to be studied in vivo. Different G-protein signaling pathways have
characteristic effects on behavior, neuronal degeneration, and embryonic
development.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.279 
PMID: 9530498  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:227-77.

Sense and the single neuron: probing the physiology of perception.

Parker AJ(1), Newsome WT.

Author information: 
(1)University Laboratory of Physiology, University of Oxford, United Kingdom.

The newly defined field of cognitive neuroscience attempts to draw together the
study of all brain mechanisms that underlie our mental life. Historically, the
major sensory pathways have provided the most trustworthy insights into how the
brain supports cognitive functions such as perception, attention, and short-term 
memory. The links between neural activity and perception, in particular, have
been studied revealingly in recent decades. Here we review the striking progress 
in this area, giving particular emphasis to the kinds of neural events that
underlie the perceptual judgments of conscious observers.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.227 
PMID: 9530497  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:187-226.

Human autoimmune neuropathies.

Ho TW(1), McKhann GM, Griffin JW.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21287, USA.

Peripheral nerve diseases are among the most prevalent disorders of the nervous
system. Because of the accessibility of the peripheral nervous system (PNS) to
direct physiological and pathological study, neuropathies have traditionally
played a unique role in developing our understanding of basic mechanism of
nervous system injury and repair. At present they are providing new insight into 
the mechanisms of immune injury to the nervous system. A rapidly growing
catalogue of PNS disorders are now suspected to be immune-mediated, and in the
best understood of these disorders, the molecular and cellular targets of immune 
attack are known, and the pathophysiology follows directly from the specific
immune injury. This review summarizes the immunologically relevant features of
the PNS, then considers selected immune-mediated neuropathies, focusing on
pathogenetic mechanisms. Finally, the PNS is providing a testing ground for new
immunotherapies and approaches to protection and regeneration, including the use 
of trophic factors. The current status of treatment and implications for future
approaches is reviewed.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.187 
PMID: 9530496  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:149-86.

Cortical plasticity: from synapses to maps.

Buonomano DV(1), Merzenich MM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, University of California Los Angeles 90095-1763,
USA.

It has been clear for almost two decades that cortical representations in adult
animals are not fixed entities, but rather, are dynamic and are continuously
modified by experience. The cortex can preferentially allocate area to represent 
the particular peripheral input sources that are proportionally most used.
Alterations in cortical representations appear to underlie learning tasks
dependent on the use of the behaviorally important peripheral inputs that they
represent. The rules governing this cortical representational plasticity
following manipulations of inputs, including learning, are increasingly well
understood. In parallel with developments in the field of cortical map
plasticity, studies of synaptic plasticity have characterized specific elementary
forms of plasticity, including associative long-term potentiation and long-term
depression of excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Investigators have made many
important strides toward understanding the molecular underpinnings of these
fundamental plasticity processes and toward defining the learning rules that
govern their induction. The fields of cortical synaptic plasticity and cortical
map plasticity have been implicitly linked by the hypothesis that synaptic
plasticity underlies cortical map reorganization. Recent experimental and
theoretical work has provided increasingly stronger support for this hypothesis. 
The goal of the current paper is to review the fields of both synaptic and
cortical map plasticity with an emphasis on the work that attempts to unite both 
fields. A second objective is to highlight the gaps in our understanding of
synaptic and cellular mechanisms underlying cortical representational plasticity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.149 
PMID: 9530495  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:127-48.

CREB and memory.

Silva AJ(1), Kogan JH, Frankland PW, Kida S.

Author information: 
(1)Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Harbor, New York 11724, USA. silva@cshl.org

The cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) is a nuclear protein that
modulates the transcription of genes with cAMP responsive elements in their
promoters. Increases in the concentration of either calcium or cAMP can trigger
the phosphorylation and activation of CREB. This transcription factor is a
component of intracellular signaling events that regulate a wide range of
biological functions, from spermatogenesis to circadian rhythms and memory. Here 
we review the key features of CREB-dependent transcription, as well as the
involvement of CREB in memory formation. Evidence from Aplysia, Drosophila, mice,
and rats shows that CREB-dependent transcription is required for the cellular
events underlying long-term but not short-term memory. While the work in Aplysia 
and Drosophila only involved CREB function in very simple forms of conditioning, 
genetic and pharmacological studies in mice and rats demonstrate that CREB is
required for a variety of complex forms of memory, including spatial and social
learning, thus indicating that CREB may be a universal modulator of processes
required for memory formation.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.127 
PMID: 9530494  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:97-125.

Adhesion molecules and inherited diseases of the human nervous system.

Kamiguchi H(1), Hlavin ML, Yamasaki M, Lemmon V.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio 
44106, USA.

Mutations in the human genes for the adhesion molecules Po, L1, and merosin cause
severe abnormalities in nervous system development. Po and merosin are required
for normal myelination in the nervous system, and L1 is essential for development
of major axon pathways such as the corticospinal tract and corpus callosum. While
mutations that lead to a loss of the adhesive function of these molecules produce
severe phenotypes, mutations that disrupt intracellular signals or intracellular 
interactions are also deleterious. Geneticists have found that more than one
clinical syndrome can be caused by mutations in each of these adhesion molecules,
confirming that these proteins are multifunctional. This review focuses on
identifying common mechanisms by which mutations in adhesion molecules alter
neural development.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.97 
PMID: 9530493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:75-95.

RAB3 and synaptotagmin: the yin and yang of synaptic membrane fusion.

Geppert M(1), Südhof TC.

Author information: 
(1)Abteilung Molekulare Neurobiologie, Max-Planck-Institut für experimentelle
Medizin, Göttingen, Germany.

Synaptic vesicle exocytosis occurs in consecutive steps: docking, which
specifically attaches vesicles to the active zone; priming, which makes the
vesicles competent for Ca(2+)-triggered release and may involve a partial fusion 
reaction; and the final Ca(2+)-regulated step that completes fusion. Recent
evidence suggests that the critical regulation of the last step in the reaction
is mediated by two proteins with opposite actions: synaptotagmin, a
Ca(2+)-binding protein that is essential for Ca(2+)-triggered release and
probably serves as the Ca(2+)-sensor in fusion, and rab3, which limits the number
of vesicles that can be fused as a function of Ca2+ in order to allow a
temporally limited, repeatable signal.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.75 
PMID: 9530492  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:47-74.

Local circuits in primary visual cortex of the macaque monkey.

Callaway EM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Systems Neurobiology Laboratory, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La
Jolla, California 92037, USA.

The basic laminar organization of excitatory local circuitry in the primary
visual cortex of the macaque monkey is similar to that described previously in
the cat's visual cortex (Gilbert 1983). This circuitry is described here in the
context of a two-level model that distinguishes between feedforward and feedback 
connections. Embedded within this basic framework is a more complex organization.
Within the strictly feedforward pathway, these circuits distribute unique
combinations of magno-, parvo-, and koniocellular input from the lateral
geniculate nucleus (LGN) to neurons in layers 2-4B. Their input is dependent on
the extrastriate cortical areas they target. The local feedback connections from 
deep layers (5 and 6) arise from a diverse population of pyramidal neurons. Each 
type forms local connections with a unique relationship to more superficial
layers. In the case of layer 6 neurons, these connections are closely related to 
layer 4 subdivisions receiving input from different functional streams.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.47 
PMID: 9530491  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1998;21:25-45.

From biophysics to models of network function.

Marder E(1).

Author information: 
(1)Volen Center, Brandeis University, Waltham, Massachusetts 02254, USA.
marder@volen.brandeis.edu

Neurons and synapses display a rich range of time-dependent processes. Which of
these are critical to understanding specific integrative functions in the brain? 
Computational methods of various kinds are used to understand how systems of
neurons interact to produce behavior. However, these models often assume that
neuronal dynamics and synaptic strengths are fixed. This review presents some
recent models that illustrate that short-term synaptic plasticity mechanisms such
as facilitation and depression can have important implications for network
function. Other features of synaptic transmission such as multi-component
synaptic potentials, cotransmission, and neuromodulation with obvious potential
computational implications are presented. These examples illustrate that synaptic
strength and intrinsic properties in networks are continuously varying on
numerous time scales as a function of the temporal patterns of activity in the
network. Thus, both firing frequency of the neurons in a circuit, and the
modulatory environment determine the intrinsic and synaptic properties that
produce behavior.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.21.1.25 
PMID: 9530490  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:595-631.

Mechanisms of olfactory discrimination: converging evidence for common principles
across phyla.

Hildebrand JG(1), Shepherd GM.

Author information: 
(1)ARL Division of Neurobiology, University of Arizona, Tucson 85721, USA.

Olfaction begins with the transduction of the information carried by odor
molecules into electrical signals in sensory neurons. The activation of different
subsets of sensory neurons to different degrees is the basis for neural encoding 
and further processing of the odor information by higher centers in the olfactory
pathway. Recent evidence has converged on a set of transduction mechanisms,
involving G-protein-coupled second-messenger systems, and neural processing
mechanisms, involving modules called glomeruli, that appear to be adapted for the
requirements of different species. The evidence is highlighted in this review by 
focusing on studies in selected vertebrates and in insects and crustaceans among 
invertebrates. The findings support the hypothesis that olfactory transduction
and neural processing in the peripheral olfactory pathway involve basic
mechanisms that are universal across most species in most phyla.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.595 
PMID: 9056726  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:567-94.

The molecules of mechanosensation.

Garcia-Anoveros J(1), Corey DP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical
School, Boston 02114, USA.

Mechanosensation, the transduction of mechanical forces into a cellular
electrochemical signal, enables living organisms to detect touch; vibrations,
such as sound; accelerations, including gravity; body movements; and changes in
cellular volume and shape. Ion channels directly activated by mechanical tension 
are thought to mediate mechanosensation in many systems. Only one channel has
been cloned that is unequivocably mechanically gated: the MscL channel in
bacteria. Genetic screens for touch-insensitive nematodes or flies promise to
identify the proteins that constitute a mechanosensory apparatus in eukaryotes.
In Caenorhabditis elegans, the mec genes thus identified encode molecules for a
candidate structure, which includes a "degenerin" channel tethered to specialized
extracellular and intracellular structural proteins. In hair cells of the inner
ear, evidence suggests that an extracellular tip link pulls on a channel, which
attached intracellularly to actin via a tension-regulating myosin 1beta. The
channel and the tip link have not been cloned. Because degenerins and MscL
homologs have not been found outside of nematodes and prokaryotes, respectively, 
and because intracellular and extracellular accessory structures apparently
differ among organs and species, it may be that mechanosensory channel complexes 
evolved multiple times.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.567 
PMID: 9056725  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:533-66.

An urge to explain the incomprehensible: Geoffrey Harris and the discovery of the
neural control of the pituitary gland.

Raisman G(1).

Author information: 
(1)The Norman and Sadie Lee Research Centre, National Institute for Medical
Research, London, United Kingdom.

Geoffrey Harris is responsible for our view that the brain controls the endocrine
system by an exquisitely regulated pattern of synthesis and release of individual
members of a family of peptide hormones. These hormones are carried through a
portal vascular system that passes from the hypothalamus to the pituitary gland, 
where they selectively regulate the secretion of the six anterior pituitary
hormones. This family of hypothalamic hormones is highly conserved in all
vertebrates, including humans. They are essential for all aspects of
reproduction--courtship, mating, pregnancy and young rearing--and they are
responsible for the seasonal regulation of breeding. The hypothalamic control
mechanism for reproduction is sexually dimorphic, with a basic female pattern
that becomes masculinized under the influence of specific steroid hormones acting
during development. Other members of the hypothalamic hormone family specifically
regulate the secretion of pituitary growth hormone and the anterior pituitary
hormones controlling the functions of the thyroid and adrenal glands. The
secretion of the hypothalamic hormones is itself regulated by the feedback of the
target gland hormones (such as estrogen and progesterone), which concurrently act
on the brain to elicit appropriate behavior patterns. The hypothalamo-hypophysial
axis plays a crucial role in the struggle for the survival of the species. By
bringing the endocrine system under the control of the brain, it allows access to
external environmental inputs, learned behavior patterns, and the whole of the
central integrative machinery needed for the bodily functions to be sensitively
and optimally adapted to the ever-changing challenges and opportunities in the
outside world.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.533 
PMID: 9056724  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:483-532.

PAX-6 in development and evolution.

Callaerts P(1), Halder G, Gehring WJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Biozentrum, University of Basel, Switzerland.

Pax-6 is a member of the Pax gene class and encodes a protein containing a paired
domain and a homeodomain. The molecular characterization of Pax-6 genes from
species of different animal phyla and the analysis of Pax-6 function in the
developing eyes and central nervous system of vertebrates, Drosophila
melanogaster, and Caenorhabditis elegans suggest that Pax-6 homologues share
conserved functions. In this review, we present recent data on the structural and
functional characterization of Pax-6 homologues from species of different animal 
phyla. We discuss the implications of these findings for our understanding of the
development and evolution of eyes and nervous systems.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.483 
PMID: 9056723  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:459-81.

Developmental plasticity in neural circuits for a learned behavior.

Bottjer SW(1), Arnold AP.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles
90089-2520, USA.

The neural substrate underlying learned vocal behavior in songbirds provides a
textbook illustration of anatomical localization of function for a complex
learned behavior in vertebrates. The song-control system has become an important 
model for studying neural systems related to learning, behavior, and development.
The song system of zebra finches is characterized by a heightened capacity for
both neural and behavioral change during development and has taught us valuable
information regarding sensitive periods, rearrangement of synaptic connections,
topographic specificity, cell death and neurogenesis, experience-dependent neural
plasticity, and sexual differentiation. The song system differs in some
interesting ways from some well-studied mammalian model systems and thus offers
fresh perspectives on specific theoretical issues. In this highly selective
review, we concentrate on two major questions: What are the developmental changes
in the song system responsible for song learning and the restriction of learning 
to a sensitive period, and what factors explain the highly sexually dimorphic
development of this system? We discuss the important role of sex steroid hormones
and of neurotrophins in creating a male-typical neural song circuit (which can
learn to produce complex vocalizations) instead of a reduced, female-typical song
circuit that does not produce learned song.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.459 
PMID: 9056722  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:429-58.

ARIA: a neuromuscular junction neuregulin.

Fischbach GD(1), Rosen KM.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts
02115, USA.

Motor neurons influence the expression and the distribution of acetylcholine
receptors in skeletal muscle. Molecules that mediate this carefully choreographed
interaction have recently been identified. One of them, ARIA, is a polypeptide
purified from chicken brain on the basis of its ability to stimulate the
synthesis of muscle acetylcholine receptors. The predicted amino acid sequence
suggests that ARIA is synthesized as a transmembrane precursor protein and that
it is a member of a family of ligands that activate receptor tyrosine kinases
related to the epidermal growth factor receptor. Certain features of the ligand
family (the neuregulins) and their receptors (erbBs) are reviewed. Evidence that 
ARIA plays an important role at developing and mature neuromuscularjunctions is
discussed.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.429 
PMID: 9056721  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:399-427.

Functional and structural complexity of signal transduction via G-protein-coupled
receptors.

Gudermann T(1), Schöneberg T, Schultz G.

Author information: 
(1)Institut für Pharmakologie, Freie Universität Berlin, Germany.

A prerequisite for the maintenance of homeostasis in a living organism is
fine-tuned communication between different cells. The majority of extracellular
signaling molecules, such as hormones and neurotransmitters, interact with a
three-protein transmembrane signaling system consisting of a receptor, a G
protein, and an effector. These single components interact sequentially and
reversibly. Considering that hundreds of G-protein-coupled receptors interact
with a limited repertoire of G proteins, the question of coupling specificity is 
worth considering. G-protein-mediated signal transduction is a complex signaling 
network with diverging and converging transduction steps at each coupling
interface. The recent realization that classical signaling pathways are
intimately intertwined with growth-factor-signaling cascades adds another level
of complexity. Elaborate studies have significantly enhanced our knowledge of the
functional anatomy of G-protein-coupled receptors, and the concept has emerged
that receptor function can be modulated with high specificity by coexpressed
receptor fragments. These results may have significant clinical impact in the
future.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.399 
PMID: 9056720  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:375-97.

Function-related plasticity in hypothalamus.

Hatton GI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of California, Riverside 92521, USA.

Physiological activation of the magnocellular hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system
induces a coordinated astrocytic withdrawal from between the magnocellular somata
and the parallel-projecting dendrites of the supraoptic nucleus. Neural lobe
astrocytes release engulfed axons and retract from their usual positions along
the basal lamina. Occurring on a minutes-to-hours time scale, these changes are
accompanied by increased direct apposition of both somatic and dendritic
membrane, the formation of dendritic bundles, the appearance of novel multiple
synapses in both the somatic and dendritic zones, and increased neural occupation
of the perivascular basal lamina. Reversal, albeit with varying time courses, is 
achieved by removing the activating stimuli. Additionally, activation results in 
interneuronal coupling increases that are capable of being modulated synaptically
via second messenger-dependent mechanisms. These changes appear to play important
roles in control and coordination of oxytocin and vasopressin release during such
conditions as lactation and dehydration.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.375 
PMID: 9056719  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:355-73.

Genetics of manic depressive illness.

MacKinnon DF(1), Jamison KR, DePaulo JR.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, Maryland 21287, USA.

Manic depressive illness is a common and frequently debilitating familial
psychiatric disorder. Efforts to understand the mechanisms of inheritance have
been hindered by the complexity of the phenotype, which may range from benign
mood swings to chronic psychosis, and by apparently nonmendelian modes of
transmission. Early reports of linkage to chromosomal loci have fallen into
doubt; however they have helped encourage the development of more sophisticated
methods for analyzing complex phenotypes. Using such methods, linkage of manic
depressive illness to loci on chromosome 18 has been reported and apparently
replicated, and work is proceeding to identify genes associated with what is
probably a genetically heterogeneous set of disorders. As molecular mechanisms of
inheritance are elucidated, it will be important to consider the ethical
implications of genetic testing in a clinically and genetically complex disorder 
such as manic depressive illness.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.355 
PMID: 9056718  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:331-53.

Neurobiology of speech perception.

Fitch RH(1), Miller S, Tallal P.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience, Rutgers, The State
University of New Jersey, Newark 07102, USA.

The mechanisms by which human speech is processed in the brain are reviewed from 
both behavioral and neurobiological perspectives. Special consideration is given 
to the separation of speech processing as a complex acoustic-processing task
versus a linguistic task. Relevant animal research is reviewed, insofar as these 
data provide insight into the neurobiological basis of complex acoustic
processing in the brain.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.331 
PMID: 9056717  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:303-30.

Multimodal representation of space in the posterior parietal cortex and its use
in planning movements.

Andersen RA(1), Snyder LH, Bradley DC, Xing J.

Author information: 
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena 91125, USA.

Recent experiments are reviewed that indicate that sensory signals from many
modalities, as well as efference copy signals from motor structures, converge in 
the posterior parietal cortex in order to code the spatial locations of goals for
movement. These signals are combined using a specific gain mechanism that enables
the different coordinate frames of the various input signals to be combined into 
common, distributed spatial representations. These distributed representations
can be used to convert the sensory locations of stimuli into the appropriate
motor coordinates required for making directed movements. Within these spatial
representations of the posterior parietal cortex are neural activities related to
higher cognitive functions, including attention. We review recent studies showing
that the encoding of intentions to make movements is also among the cognitive
functions of this area.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.303 
PMID: 9056716  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:269-301.

RNA transport.

Nakielny S(1), Fischer U, Michael WM, Dreyfuss G.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of Pennsylvania School
of Medicine, Philadelphia 19104-6148, USA.

RNA molecules synthesized in the nucleus are transported to their sites of
function throughout the eukaryotic cell by specific transport pathways. This
review focuses on transport of messenger RNA, small nuclear RNA, ribosomal RNA,
and transfer RNA between the nucleus and the cytoplasm. The general molecular
mechanisms involved in nucleocytoplasmic transport of RNA are only beginning to
be understood. However, during the past few years, substantial progress has been 
made. A major theme that emerges from recent studies of RNA transport is that
specific signals mediate the transport of each class of RNA, and these signals
are provided largely by the specific proteins with which each RNA is associated.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.269 
PMID: 9056715  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:245-67.

Bcl-2 gene family in the nervous system.

Merry DE(1), Korsmeyer SJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine,
Philadelphia 19104, USA.

A growing family of genes that share homology with the bcl-2 proto-oncogene is
involved in the regulation of cell death. Many of these proteins show widespread 
expression and are expressed in the nervous system in developing and adult
organisms. A physiologic role for Bcl-2 and Bcl-x in neuron survival has been
shown. In addition, these proteins have been shown to protect neurons from a wide
array of toxic insults. In this review, we discuss the Bcl-2 family of proteins
with regard to their structure and interactions. We then discuss the role of
apoptotic cell death in the development of the nervous system and as a response
to neuronal injury. Lastly, we discuss the evidence for a role for these cell
death regulators in neuronal death decisions.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.245 
PMID: 9056714  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:217-44.

The significance of neural ensemble codes during behavior and cognition.

Deadwyler SA(1), Hampson RE.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Bowman Gray School of Medicine, Wake Forest
University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27157, USA.

The development of techniques to record from populations of neurons has made it
possible to ask questions concerning the encoding of task-relevant information in
awake, behaving animals. The issue of how groups of neurons within different
brain structures register and retrieve representations of behaviorally
significant events can now be addressed using multineuron-recording techniques.
This review examines recent studies employing simultaneous recording of ten or
more individual neurons in the mammalian brain. A major issue discussed is
whether ensemble information content reconstructed from single-neuron recordings 
may be underestimated if compared to ensembles where those same neurons were
recorded simultaneously. The mechanics of ensemble information encoding in the
hippocampus is illustrated from population statistical analyses of ensemble
activity during performance of a delay task. Detailed descriptions of methods of 
extracting ensemble information, as well as cross-correlational analyses, are
discussed in the context of emergent issues regarding interpretation of ensemble 
data.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.217 
PMID: 9056713  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:185-215.

Sleep and arousal: thalamocortical mechanisms.

McCormick DA(1), Bal T.

Author information: 
(1)Section of Neurobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven,
Connecticut 06510, USA.

Thalamocortical activity exhibits two distinct states: (a) synchronized rhythmic 
activity in the form of delta, spindle, and other slow waves during
EEG-synchronized sleep and (b) tonic activity during waking and
rapid-eye-movement sleep. Spindle waves are generated largely through a cyclical 
interaction between thalamocortical and thalamic reticular neurons involving both
the intrinsic membrane properties of these cells and their anatomical
interconnections. Specific alterations in the interactions between these cells
can result in the generation of paroxysmal events resembling absence seizures in 
children. The release of several different neurotransmitters from the brain stem,
hypothalamus, basal forebrain, and cerebral cortex results in a depolarization of
thalamocortical and thalamic reticular neurons and an enhanced excitability in
many cortical pyramidal cells, thereby suppressing the generation of sleep
rhythms and promoting a state that is conducive to sensory processing and
cognition.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.185 
PMID: 9056712  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:157-84.

Molecular genetic analysis of synaptic plasticity, activity-dependent neural
development, learning, and memory in the mammalian brain.

Chen C(1), Tonegawa S.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Learning and Memory, Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, Cambridge 02139, USA.

Recently, dozens of mutant mice generated with gene targeting or transgenic
technologies have been shown to exhibit a distinct set of impairments in the
brain and behavior. In this review, we discuss how studies of mutant mice have
helped elucidate the mechanisms that underlie synaptic plasticity and the
relationship of these synaptic mechanisms to the activity-dependent phase of
neural development and learning and memory. We focus on the recent progress in
the analysis of whisker-related pattern formation, elimination of climbing
fibers, long-term potentiation, long-term depression, and various learning and
memory tasks in mutant mice.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.157 
PMID: 9056711  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:125-56.

The role of vesicular transport proteins in synaptic transmission and neural
degeneration.

Liu Y(1), Edwards RH.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco 94143-0435,
USA.

Classical neurotransmitters are synthesized in the cytoplasm, so they require
transport into secretory vesicles for regulated exocytotic release. Previous work
has identified distinct vesicular transport activities for the different
classical transmitters, and all depend on the H+-electrochemical gradient across 
the vesicle membrane but differ in the extent to which they rely on the chemical 
and electrical components of this gradient. Drugs that interfere with vesicular
amine transport have implicated this activity in psychiatric disease. Selection
for a cDNA encoding vesicular amine transport in the neurotoxin MPP+ also
implicates the activity in Parkinson's disease. Molecular cloning of vesicular
monoamine transporters shows sequence similarity to bacterial antibiotic
resistance proteins, supporting a role for transport in detoxification and
defining a novel mammalian gene family that now also includes a transporter for
acetylcholine. Current work focuses on the mechanism of transport and the role
that regulation of activity and its subcellular localization have in transmitter 
release, behavior, and neural degeneration.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.125 
PMID: 9056710  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:91-123.

Cloned potassium channels from eukaryotes and prokaryotes.

Jan LY(1), Jan YN.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, University of California, San Francisco 94143-0724, 
USA.

Potassium channels contribute to the excitability of neurons and signaling in the
nervous system. They arise from multiple gene families including one for
voltage-gated potassium channels and one for inwardly rectifying potassium
channels. Features of potassium permeation, channel gating and regulation, and
subunit interaction have been analyzed. Potassium channels of similar design have
been found in animals ranging from jellyfish to humans, as well as in plants,
yeast, and bacteria. Structural similarities are evident for the pore-forming
alpha subunits and for the beta subunits, which could potentially regulate
channel activity according to the level of energy and/or reducing power of the
cell.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.91 
PMID: 9056709  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:61-90.

The compartmentalization of the cerebellum.

Herrup K(1), Kuemerle B.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurology, Case Western Reserve School of Medicine, Cleveland,
Ohio 44120, USA.

The concept of developmental compartments originated in studies of Drosophila
embryogenesis. This review examines the hypothesis that the modular structure of 
the vertebrate cerebellum is strongly analogous to this earlier scheme. The
pattern of cerebellar development, the adult circuitry, a variety of molecular
markers expressed in specific subdivisions, and the phenotypes of several
neurological mutations all provide abundant evidence that the vertebrate
cerebellum is organized into modules. We present the case that, as a group, these
markers reveal distinct boundaries that partition the cerebellum into true
developmental compartments. Although this reductionist viewpoint advances our
understanding of cerebellar organization, the relationship between these
compartments and the functional behavior of the cerebellum remains a mystery.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.61 
PMID: 9056708  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:43-60.

Vertebrate neural induction.

Hemmati-Brivanlou A(1), Melton D.

Author information: 
(1)Center for Neurosciences, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York
10021-6399, USA.

During early vertebrate development, the cells of the ectoderm choose between two
possible fates: neural and epidermal. The process of neural induction was
discovered nearly 70 years ago in vertebrates, and molecular analyses in recent
years using Xenopus laevis embryos have identified several secreted factors with 
direct neural-inducing ability. There is considerable evidence that the mechanism
of neuralization by these inducing factors is under inhibitory control and
involves derepression. This review focuses on factors involved in the
specification of neural fate within the frame of the default model of neural
induction.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.43 
PMID: 9056707  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:25-42.

Premotor and parietal cortex: corticocortical connectivity and combinatorial
computations.

Wise SP(1), Boussaoud D, Johnson PB, Caminiti R.

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neurophysiology, NIMH, Poolesville, Maryland 20837, USA.

The dorsal premotor cortex is a functionally distinct cortical field or group of 
fields in the primate frontal cortex. Anatomical studies have confirmed that most
parietal input to the dorsal premotor cortex originates from the superior
parietal lobule. However, these projections arise not only from the dorsal aspect
of area 5, as has long been known, but also from newly defined areas of posterior
parietal cortex, which are directly connected with the extrastriate visual
cortex. Thus, the dorsal premotor cortex receives much more direct visual input
than previously accepted. It appears that this fronto-parietal network functions 
as a visuomotor controller-one that makes computations based on proprioceptive,
visual, gaze, attentional, and other information to produce an output that
reflects the selection, preparation, and execution of movements.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.25 
PMID: 9056706  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Annu Rev Neurosci. 1997;20:1-24.

Patterning and specification of the cerebral cortex.

Levitt P(1), Barbe MF, Eagleson KL.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Cell Biology, Robert Wood Johnson Medical
School, UMDNJ, Piscataway 08854, USA.

Regionalization of the cerebral cortex occurs during development by the formation
of anatomically and functionally discrete areas of the brain. Descriptive
evidence based on expression of molecules and structural features suggests that
an early parcelation of the cerebral wall may occur during fetal development.
Experimental strategies using tissue transplants and cell culture models have
explored the nature of the timing of areal specification. New signaling systems
displaying the sensitivity of precursor cells to environmental cues that define
the fate of neurons destined for specific areas of the cortex have been
discovered. Studies in the field now suggest mechanisms of regulating cell
phenotype in the cortex that are common to all parts of the neuraxis.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.neuro.20.1.1 
PMID: 9056705  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

